appellant fernando gonzalez was convicted of conspiring to distribute and aiding and abetting the distribution of cocaine.he was sentenced to twenty years in prison.on appeal,gonzalez claims that the district court erred in denying his motion for a competency hearing and in admitting certain evidence.he also asserts that the evidence was legally insufficient to convict him,and that his sentence violated his constitutional rights.finding no error,we affirm the conviction and sentence.
factual background 
we review the facts in the light most favorable to the jury verdict.united states marin,cir.in january,law enforcement authorities were investigating two rhode island men,estoredarico bernard belige,and eucraneo severino severino.the investigation included surveillance of a liquor store that belige owned and operated,an business owned and operated by severino,and severino residence.
during this time period,gonzalez lived in denver,colorado,where he served as a middleman for cocaine dealers tied to mexican drug cartels.his role was to find customers in the northeast united states.belige was one such customer.
in late january,authorities eavesdropped on a telephone call from gonzalez to belige,in which gonzalez left the message,uncle.i am fernando.call me back whenever you can to a phone number.two days later,belige listened to the message three times,and then returned the call,leaving the following message your uncle is calling you.call me back.gonzalez returned the call and the two spoke for a short time.the conversation went as follows 
gonzalez g oh,hello,uncle,how have you been 
b go ahead,go ahead,go ahead.
g chuckles 
b where were you were you lost 
g no,there was any.chuckles.
b chuckles 
g oh well things were calm.
b oh that good.
g so,are you working 
g do you want me to take a ride over 
b come over today.
g chuckles it just that i getting it for you way too high.
b oh,then you not right.
b what where are you driving 
g come again 
b what the mileage how much are you driving 
b what you are crazy laughter unintelligible is here this week.
g and what about 
b can be done.
b to help you out.
g yeah,well let me see if i can get ready right away and i call you in the afternoon.
g that i be ready right away and i call you in the afternoon.
b well come over here before the other one arrives.
g yeah,yeah.if i go,i be arriving in two days.
b oh,around saturday.saturday 
according to central falls,detective dorian rave,the above conversation was actually rife with coded language concerning the delivery of cocaine to belige.for example,there was any was an indication that gonzalez had been out of contact because of a depleted cocaine supply when he asked whether belige was working,gonzalez was asking whether belige was dealing drugs finally,the discussion of mileage and actually the price per kilogram in thousands of dollars.
true to his word,gonzalez called belige later the same day.this shorter conversation went as follows 
g uh what up uncle,it me fernando.
b talk to me fernando.
g oh i could do that.it did work out for me.i need you to just for.
b oh but it does work out that way.
g it does work out yeah,but he leave in the morning and the guy has them but i was able to get them.
b what was that 
g he did want lower.
b damn,that rough that way.that not much profit.
b there no profit there.
g what did you say 
b that there not much profit there.
g no,well think about you want and i look for another guy to see what comes up,if you a go call me that those are there.
b well then.uh,then when would that be here 
g yeah,he he would be leaving in the morning and arrives saturday in the afternoon or sunday morning.
b uh.well,then come over to help you out.
b come over to help you out.
g oh then thank you man.
detective rave decoded this conversation to mean that gonzalez could go no lower than the per kilogram price discussed earlier in the day.despite the protest about the small profit,belige agreed after gonzalez informed him that a courier would leave the next morning a wednesday and deliver the cocaine to belige saturday or sunday.
on the following monday,january,surveillance personnel observed severino enter belige liquor store.he left the liquor store in his car,followed by a car with colorado license plates.the colorado car went into a warehouse at severino place of business.the driver of the colorado determined to be gonzalez cousin,adalberto about an hour later.he was followed by federal agents to a nearby hotel.later that day,agents approached severino and obtained permission to search the warehouse,where they seized a duffel bag containing sealed packages of cocaine,package sealing materials,and gasoline soaked wrappings and rags,which police theorized were used to protect the cocaine that had been hidden in the colorado car gas tank during transit.
after seizing the cocaine,police arrested belige and adalberto gonzalez.at the request of the police,belige called appellant to tell him that he and appellant cousin had been arrested.detective rave subsequently called appellant,identifying himself as a police officer.during this conversation which took place in acknowledged that he had discussed the arrest with belige.he admitted his status as the middleman for the colorado distributors and the tasks he did for them,as well as the fact that he had negotiated the sale to belige and enlisted his cousin to be the drug courier.
gonzalez was indicted on one count of conspiring to distribute and possess with intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine,in violation of a and,and one count of aiding and abetting the distribution and possession with intent to distribute the same amount of cocaine,in violation of a and b a and.
the jury convicted gonzalez on both counts after a trial.he was sentenced to months imprisonment on each count,to be served concurrently.this timely appeal followed.
ii.legal analysis 
competency 
gonzalez first argues that he is entitled to a new trial because the district court wrongfully denied his request for a competency examination and the related request for a continuance.the relevant facts may be sketched briefly.
on the day of jury selection,gonzalez arrived at court in his clothes,contrary to the advice of his attorney and the magistrate judge,who also discussed with him the potential negative ramifications of his choice of attire.gonzalez said simply that he just wanted to wear the jail clothes.his attorney indicated that gonzalez was going forward to trial against his despite strong evidence against gonzalez feared for his family safety from members of the drug cartel with whom he had associated if he pled guilty and cooperated.a jury was selected,and trial was scheduled to begin two days later,february.
the next day,however,defense counsel filed motions seeking a competency hearing for gonzalez and a continuance.the basis for the motions was an incident which occurred at the detention facility where gonzalez was being held,in which he cut his wrists seriously enough to require transport to a hospital and sutures to repair the damage.he was seen by a staff psychologist before being taken to the hospital.both the apparent suicide attempt and gonzalez prior refusal to wear civilian clothes to court were given as reasons to question gonzalez competency to stand trial.
the district court held a brief hearing on the competency issue.the judge asked defense counsel whether a conversation with gonzalez demonstrated that he was unable to understand why he was in court,unable to communicate with or assist defense counsel or unable to participate in the trial.counsel indicated that gonzalez knew why he was in court and that he was communicating,although he might not be focused on assisting counsel.the judge also asked a deputy marshal with knowledge of the incident for information on gonzalez.he stated that gonzalez had told the staff psychologist during a examination that he was not seeking to end his life,and that he was instead reacting to his confinement and fears for his family safety.the marshal also told the judge that jail personnel with whom he had spoken had told him that gonzalez understood what g