geraldo rivera appeals the district court determination that a statement rivera made to neal horsley during the course of a television program hosted by rivera is not protected as a matter of law by the first amendment of the united states constitution nor by applicable state law.rivera asserted that horsley was an accomplice to murder.because we find that rivera allegedly defamatory statement is absolutely protected as rhetorical hyperbole by both the first amendment and applicable state defamation law,we reverse.
horsley brought this action against rivera for libel and slander based on an allegedly defamatory statement that was made during the course of a television interview.
an activist and founder of the creator rights party,horsley created and operated a number of web sites on the internet.one of these web sites listed the names,addresses and social security numbers of individual doctors who were known to perform abortions.
in october,bernard slepian,a medical doctor who performed abortions as part of his practice,was shot and killed while standing in the kitchen of his home in buffalo,new york.his murder attracted national and international media attention.horsley claims that slepian name and address were not posted on his web site prior to the murder however,subsequently,horsley added this information to his list of doctors known to perform abortions and then graphically crossed out slepian entry horsley struck an x through the entry for slepian name.
on october,four days after the murder of slepian,horsley voluntarily appeared as a participant on the upfront tonight news and program hosted by rivera,broadcast live by the cnbc cable network the program.at the beginning of the segment of the program dealing with horsley activities,rivera introduced horsley,described his web site,and reminded viewers of the recent murder of slepian the victim of the most recent attack,slepian,was well known to abortion opponents.his name and address were posted on a bizarre web site called the christian gallery.its title page drips with blood.neal horsley is the owner of that web site and founder of the creators rights party.rivera concluded his introduction by addressing horsley 
rivera now i understand that,technically,you spoken out against the the murder of slepian.you said,we want to make one thing clear,that we do want to see anybody die.yet by crossing out his name on the hit list as he was murdered,as you have for others who have been killed,it seems to me,sir,that you are,in fact,encouraging others to strike out with violence.
horsley what it seems like to you is not at all what we doing.i been saying for five years that we are gon na be facing a pattern of escalating domestic terrorism in this nation.you call this program war against abortion.the fact is,a war is what happens when government gives its citizens permission to kill other people.and the government of the united states of america gave the citizens of this nation permission to kill unborn babies.that when the war started.what i trying to do is put an end to this war by trying to overturn roe wade.
rivera overturn is a constitutional fight.it may be a courtroom fight.but in listing these people names and their addresses and their social security number,what you are doing,in my opinion is aiding and abetting a homicide.
horsley well,you entitled to your opinion,and certainly has one,but what i doing is doing exactly what we say.we trying to accumulate evidence because our hearts to see the day come when we can prosecute these people who make a living killing god children.that what we want to do.and we have the right,as american citizens,to try to change the law through legal means so that we can,in fact,see the day come when these people could be brought to the bar of justice.
rivera you know,you speak of justice and yet you cross out a man name.he shot dead in front of his family,a bullet coming through the window of his home a coward attack.how can you sit there with a straight face and pretend such righteousness 
horsley i not pretending got blood of these children on my hands.as a citizen of the united 
rivera you may have the blood of this doctor on your hands,horsley.
horsley well,point is that babies a day are dying.and as a citizen of the united states of america,i have a choice.i can stand by and collaborate with that slaughter or i can do what i can do to stop it.it not against the law for me to keep a list of people who a living killing babies.that all i been doing.
rivera would you dare say that to slepian widow would you dare say that to his children 
horsley i say that now.that exactly what i doing.i say that to every abortion doctor and every family of every abortionist in the country,that we really want to see you brought to justice.we want to see you tried,because what you doing is killing god children.
rivera and where in your in the christian faith does it justify what you do giving information that would allow a murderer access 
horsley what we 
rivera that would allow a target to be made more vulnerable than ever where in the bible does it give you that right 
horsley yellow pages gives the same information that we give.and the bible says that god ordains government to enforce the law,to protect the lives people who are being slaughtered unmercifully,and that what happening to these babies.everybody can ignore,but there are people here who are not going to ignore the slaughter of these children.
rivera and how about the slaughter of this man this man who 
horsley it a tragedy.i said it a tragedy.
rivera they say in the buffalo area was man who mercifully birth or helped women give birth in difficult conditions who was generous of spirit who was a compassionate man who helped many more babies be born than he ever performed procedure of abortion.what about him 
horsley i not trying to 
rivera does that makes sic is his death less than theirs 
horsley i had nothing to do with his death,nor am i trying to justify 
rivera how can you say that you crossed out his name on that damn list.
horsley because 
rivera how dare you 
horsley because i keeping a list of the people who are being killed,because i been saying all along,it not just babies who are at risk.geraldo,my life is at risk.your life is at risk.this whole nation very existence is at risk.
rivera you are an accomplice to homicide,horsley.
horsley you are,too,because you you showing exactly the same information.you telling people about the nuremberg files list.you a collaborator just like i am,if that true.
rivera if giving you publicity is,then i feel ashamed.i feel deeply ashamed of myself.
horsley well,you should be because how you how you sell your time.
rivera oh,go on,sell our time.
horsley you sell your time.that what you doing.that why you got me on here,because people are tuning in.you know it.they know it.
rivera because people want to see the real face of an accomplice to homicide,and they looking at your face now.and they understand what you doing.
horsley well,you can call me what you want to call me.
rivera and do think to fool with rhetoric,with your empty rhetoric.you have set back the movement.to people like the reverend falwell,and they look at you with disdain.they look at you with disgust for what you are doing.
horsley i do care what they look at me as.
rivera and you pretend to use the constitution to shield your activities.
horsley what i care about is the fact there are babies being slaughtered every day,and i gon na do my best to see it stopped.
rivera you are the face of the movement,then you have helped defeat the very movement that you say you cherish.
horsley well,you can say that,but we see what happens over time.
rivera yeah.we see.
horsley that where it turn.
rivera is my name going to be on your list next 
horsley i had thought about it 
rivera yeah.
horsley but a good idea.
rivera good night.good night,horsley,i sure.
soon after appearing in this interview,horsley began receiving threatening emails and letters.many of these messages contained death threats against horsley or his family.
horsley filed suit against rivera for libel and slander,asserting that rivera made false