defendant adrian riley appeals from a judgment of the united states district court for the district of vermont,convicting him,following his plea of guilty before william sessions iii,chief judge,of possession of a firearm by a convicted felon,in violation of g,and sentencing him principally to months imprisonment,to be followed by a term of supervised release.on appeal,riley argues that his sentence was improperly enhanced on account of a prior convictions that he contends should have been disregarded because he was a youthful offender,and b acts that he contends the court erroneously found to constitute an obstruction of justice within the meaning of sentencing guidelines guidelines.
background 
the present matter has its origin in an investigation by the united states drug enforcement administration dea into narcotics trafficking in vermont.the events,for purposes of this appeal,are not in dispute.
a.the focus on riley 
in march,dea agents executed a search warrant at an apartment in essex,vermont.they seized evidence,arrested three including learned that riley had been involved in the sale of drugs from that apartment.riley,however,quickly learned of the raid and avoided immediate arrest by fleeing to florida with,among others,his girlfriend jennifer johnson.riley and johnson remained in florida for several weeks,returning in may.
following his return,riley obtained an assault rifle and had its barrel and stock shortened by travis guy,one of his narcotics customers.in exchange,riley gave guy several grams of crack cocaine.thereafter,guy gave riley a remington rifle in payment of a debt for a prior crack purchase.
in,dea agents were informed that riley,after his return to vermont,accosted the confidential informant ci who had cooperated in their initial investigation,accusing the ci of ratting on riley and his associates,and that one of riley companions assaulted the ci.a ci also informed dea agents of hearing conversations in which riley threatened to harm two persons for talking to the police in connection with one of those conversations,riley carried a handgun.the government filed a criminal information charging riley with retaliation against a witness,in violation of b,and a warrant was issued for his arrest.riley was not located,however,for several weeks.
in,the dea learned that riley was staying at a budget inn motel in barre,vermont,registered under the name jamal watson,and was driving a blue volvo station wagon.on june,they spotted riley car and began to follow it.the car was being driven by johnson,who noticed the trailing authorities and alerted riley.riley initially did not believe her but after johnson took a few turns down side roads,riley left the car and fled into the woods.he was apprehended later that day.riley told the officers his name was jamal watson,and he was soon indicted for making that false statement,in violation of.
johnson concealment of riley guns 
after letting riley out of the car in his attempt to elude the authorities,johnson went first to the home of a friend and then back to the room she shared with riley at the budget inn.there,she removed the two rifles and a few of the other items belonging to riley.johnson testified that she removed the guns because riley had told her to conceal them if he got arrested.see sentencing transcript,march,at that was something that was before he got locked up,that if something was to happen,then this is what i was to do.id.at he said to get rid of everything,if he was to get locked up.johnson took the firearms to a friend mobile home in washington,vermont,and hid them in a closet.
on june and several times over the course of the next few days,riley telephoned johnson from jail.in those calls,which were routinely recorded by the correctional facility,riley repeatedly made reference to his bitches,by which johnson understood him to mean his guns see.during these conversations,riley vacillated as to whether johnson should discard the guns or continue to conceal them.in the first such conversation,riley sought to confirm that johnson had secured the guns,and he ultimately instructed her to get rid of them 
ar adrian riley where the,where my bitches at 
jj jennifer johnson they put away,baby.
ar hold my bitches down,man.
correctional facility telephone transcript.dated june,at emphasis added.
ar i was glad my bitches ai showed up.my bitches showed up,any one of them.
jj it what what i had 
ar i of,i of had a heart attack.
jj that just as good as gone.you know what i mean til they want to be relived again.
ar no,no,you hear me 
ar get rid of them,i get new ones.
jj completely 
jj all right.
id.at emphases added.in that conversation,riley also referred to a dog and cats,by which johnson surmised he meant his larger and smaller firearms,respectively.see.discussing,at ar get rid of the cats.hold the dog,though,i need the dog.
by the next day,riley apparently had decided he did not want johnson to get rid of any of the guns unless necessary 
ar all right.um,hold on to my bitches until i come home.
jj you sure 
ar yeah,i sure.
jj all right.
ar not a unless,not unless,it a need emergency.
dated june,at emphasis added.and on the following day,riley emphasized that he wanted the guns well concealed.
ar you put,you put my bitches away,right 
ar you ca have them in the house.
ar that what i mean.
dated june,at.
when johnson was questioned by law enforcement agents after riley arrest,she initially did not disclose that she had removed and concealed the guns.however,after being questioned at some length by other agents,she eventually,a week after riley arrest,revealed the location of riley guns.see.on june,the agents seized the guns from the mobile home in which johnson had stashed them.
riley conviction and sentencing 
riley was indicted in a superseding indictment indictment charging him with being a previously convicted felon in possession of firearms,to wit,the remington rifle and the rifle,in violation of g count knowingly possessing the,unregistered rifle,in violation of,d,and count and knowingly making a materially false statement on a matter within the jurisdiction of the dea,in violation of count.a second superseding indictment added a fourth count and a fifth count,to wit,a distributing,and b conspiring to distribute,cocaine in violation of a and.the second superseding indictment also alleged that at least one of the firearms described in count was possessed in connection with another felony offense and that the rifle was a firearm described in a and it cited guidelines,which recommends enhanced punishment for such offense characteristics.riley promptly entered into a plea agreement with the government.in exchange for the dismissal of counts,he pleaded guilty to count,being a previously convicted felon in possession of a firearm,in violation of g.
the presentence report psr prepared by the probation office calculated that under the guidelines,which the psr noted were not mandatory in light of united states booker,d,riley had a total offense level of and a criminal history category chc of vi.the district court,in the exercise of its discretion,generally adopted the guidelines calculations at riley sentencing hearing.
riley base offense level was set at because his offense involved a shortened firearm as described in a and his prior record included convictions for armed robberies and sale of a controlled substance,see guidelines.for those convictions,riley had been sentenced to two concurrent terms of imprisonment,of which he served days before being released.although riley objected that those convictions were new york state youthful offender adjudications with respect to offenses committed when he was years of age and thus should not count,the district court disagreed.the court noted that although new york labeled them y outhful offender adjudications,they were adult felony convictions within the meaning of the guidelines,see guidelines application note a conviction for an offense committed at age eighteen years or older is an adult conviction.the court concluded that,given the nature of riley conduct,those crimes should not be discounted as simple youthful indiscretions 
th