appellant ángel pled guilty to one count of committing a hobbs act robbery in violation of a and was sentenced to a prison term of months.on appeal,he challenges his sentence as both procedurally and substantively unreasonable.we agree that the sentence was procedurally unreasonable because it was premised on factual findings that are not supported by any evidence in the record.accordingly,we vacate the sentence and remand the case for resentencing.
in setting forth the facts of this case,we draw upon the stipulated facts in the plea agreements of and his and their respective presentence investigation reports psrs.
in december,and a number of met several times to plan a robbery of a kmart store located at san patricio plaza in guaynabo,puerto rico.on december,along with william,analdi,and one other,drove with accomplice edgar to the kmart,dropping off to execute the robbery.there is no evidence in the record indicating which of the was the driver of the car.entered the store and hid in the sporting goods section until the store closed.he announced to two night crew employees that the store was being robbed and then struck one of the employees with the butt of a firearm,causing bleeding and a laceration to the victim head.next tied up the employees and began stealing merchandise.after more employees arrived at the kmart in the morning,forced the manager to open the store safe,and he took the money inside.he exited the store with the merchandise and cash,exceeding in total value.at that point the same group of accomplices arrived back at the kmart,picked up,and drove off.
in september,a grand jury issued a indictment related to the robbery of two kmart stores,including the kmart at san patricio plaza,and were charged under count one,conspiracy to commit robbery,and count three,robbing the kmart at san patricio plaza,both in violation of the hobbs act,a.they were not charged under any other counts in the indictment.
all three agreed to plead guilty to count three in exchange for dismissal of the conspiracy count.each of their plea agreements incorporated identical stipulated facts regarding their illegal activity,and the psrs of and likewise contained an identical recitation of facts describing the san patricio robbery and their respective roles in the crime 
as part of their respective plea agreements,and each agreed with the government to a recommended sentencing guidelines calculation at a total offense level of and were both sentenced in accordance with their agreements at the low end of the guidelines range consistent with their respective criminal histories.
was sentenced one day after.as with the other two defendants,the court accepted the calculation recommended in his plea agreement but with one addition.citing a recommendation by the probation office in psr,the court announced at the sentencing hearing that it was including a guidelines enhancement because a victim had sustained a bodily injury the resulting total offense level for was thus.
lawyer objected to the application of the bodily injury enhancement because the court had not imposed it on the two other.the following colloquy then ensued 
court do talk about yesterday sentence,because the individual in that case did not drive anybody to the kmart,nor picked up any victims in the kmart.it completely different.it not the same.
defense counsel as i understand it,your honor,they in the same situation.
court no.no.they are not in the same situation.
defense counsel your honor,the statement of facts is the same.
court no,they are not the same.they are not the same by any means.
court have you read the ps r from yesterday defendant 
defense counsel no,your honor.
court so how do you know it the same 
defense counsel because,your honor,the level of participation,during the process of gathering information from the case,they were in the same exact position as to level of participation.
court they are not in the same level of participation.
defense counsel i just saying,your honor,here in the psr,definitely going to the argument of what we understand is the disparity between one defendant and the other,it says that they dropped him off,and they will return to kmart the next day.so if we have a defendant that did not receive the enhancement that cotto is getting,and the participation is the same,there is an issue.
court your client took the robbers that were going to stay inside the store to the store,and picked them up the next day.
defense counsel i understand that.
court the other gentleman did not do that.
defense counsel but,your honor,his name is right there in the facts.
court he may be there,but that not what happened.
defense counsel well,the information that we have is they in the same position,your honor.
court that not what happened.
defense counsel and that our argument.
court completely different case.
the court then sentenced to a prison term of months,near the high end of the guidelines range for his applicable criminal history category and total offense level 
timely appealed,arguing that his sentence was procedurally unreasonable because the court relied on clearly erroneous facts,and substantively unreasonable because the court applied the enhancement to him when it declined to apply it to his two identically culpable.
when examining a district court discretionary sentencing decisions,our review is limited to determining whether they are reasonable.united states,cir.quoting gall united states.this review is a bifurcated process in which we first determine whether the sentence imposed is procedurally reasonable before turning to its substantive reasonableness.id.
when examining the procedural reasonableness of a sentence,we review factual findings for clear error arguments that the sentencing court erred in interpreting or applying the guidelines de novo and judgment calls for abuse of discretion simpliciter.united states leahy,cir.citations omitted.significant procedural errors include failing to calculate or improperly calculating the guidelines range,treating the guidelines as mandatory,failing to consider the a factors,selecting a sentence based on clearly erroneous facts,or failing to adequately explain the chosen sentence including an explanation for any deviation from the guidelines range,at alterations in original quoting gall,at.
procedural unreasonableness argument focuses on the district court decision to impose a enhancement to his offense level under b a.that guideline provides for a increase i f any victim sustained bodily injury during the course of a robbery.does not contest that a victim of the crime suffered a bodily injury.to the contrary,the injury is acknowledged both in his plea agreement and in his psr.instead,he focuses on the facts cited by the district court to justify application of the enhancement in his sentencing but not in the sentencing of and.
attorney argued at the sentencing hearing that the enhancement should not be imposed on his client because the district court did not apply it the previous day when sentencing.the district court admonished him,stating that was less culpable because,unlike,he did not drive anybody to the kmart,nor picked up any victims in the kmart and that i t completely different.it not the same.when attorney attempted to point out to the district court that the plea agreements described identical factual circumstances,the court responded no.no.they are not in the same situation.the judge asserted on the record no fewer than eight times that role in the crime was factually distinct from 
we find no basis in the record for the court conclusion that played a role in the kmart robbery different from that of and.all three plea agreements and at least two of the psrs,and,see supra note,reported the exact same facts about the robbery and depicted identical roles for each defendant.the district court cited no evidence in the record showing,for example,that was the driver of the vehicle that dropped at the kmart.we find no such evidence in the record,either.the court thus clearly erred in ascribing a different level of culpability to on the basis of his role in the offense.
argues before us that because his sentence