anthony antico appeals from a judgment of conviction entered after a jury trial in the united states district court for the eastern district of new york amon,at which he was found guilty of one count of participating in a racketeering enterprise,in violation of c,and one count of illegal gambling,in violation of.on appeal,antico challenges the district court decision to empanel an anonymous jury at trial,the sufficiency of the evidence underlying the racketeering conviction,and his sentence of months imprisonment on that count.we affirm.
background 
antico argues that there was insufficient evidence that he agreed in to extort money from or rob mario gulinello,who had won million on a pick six horse racing bet.antico participation in the conspiracy to rob gulinello constituted one of the relevant predicate acts in the racketeering charge of which antico was convicted.because this is an appeal from a judgment of conviction entered after a jury trial,the following facts are drawn from the trial evidence and described in the light most favorable to the government.united states bahel,cir.we limit our recitation of the facts to those relevant to antico sufficiency challenge.
gulinello,the target of antico robbery conspiracy,became a millionaire in.by,one of gulinello acquaintances,ralph lento,had introduced him to joseph barrafato,a ranking member of the genovese crime family.in june,lento and barrafato a made guy involved in organized crime met gulinello at an betting parlor otb in the bay ridge section of brooklyn.barrafato asked gulinello to join them for coffee at a coffee shop a short drive away.with gulinello in the back seat of their car,lento and barrafato instead drove past the coffee shop to the coney island section of brooklyn.after reaching a particular coney island street,they slowed down and another car pulled up beside them.at that point,barrafato called out to the driver in the other car,hey,tico,say hello to my friend mario.gulinello encounter with antico,whose various aliases include tico and big nose,lasted a few seconds.at trial gulinello testified that barrafato had previously described antico as a good guy recently released from jail.after the encounter,gulinello stopped frequenting the otb parlor and returning barrafato telephone calls.
at or around the same time in,barrafato telephone conversations were intercepted by government agents via a wiretap.in excerpts of several calls from late june through july that were played for the jury,barrafato and antico revealed their increasing financial difficulties,their familiarity with gulinello wealth,and their eagerness to rob gulinello with the help of accomplices.
on june,for example,in a telephone conversation recorded by the government,barrafato and lento discussed their financial worries,and barrafato told lento that big nose had assured him that they would have money soon again.on july,antico urged barrafato to proceed quickly with a robbery that they had previously discussed,and barrafato specifically referred to a house rob bery 
antico you got ta start movin around,my friend 
barrafato i tryin to put a few things together,you know 
w hat are you,in otb 
antico nah,i home 
get that guy to hang out with us 
barrafato w hich guy the one i told you about,with that thing 
antico yeah,yeah.ya got ta hang out with him.
barrafato i got ta go a different route with him listen to me,it got ta be done the way i told you 
antico yeah,right.
barrafato yeah.it the only way 
yeah,because these guys,they would look to house rob him 
yeah,yeah.i told them,you,you do go near there,i told them.
antico that it.
barrafato i said,back away from it,i told them.if there anythin,i comin to you,i told them.
appellant appendix app.
two days later,on july,barrafato and antico spoke urgently again about that thing over there 
barrafato we gon na come put yeah,i got ta we puttin together with that thing over there.
antico oh alright.
barrafato yeah.it gon na be we got ta do it.i,i ca wait no more.
antico i know.ca 
barrafato no.
antico wait for it.
barrafato no,i ca wait.no,i need,just i need the right ingredients to make the sauce,you know 
antico right.
barrafato yeah.that the whole thing,it the right ingredients.i hurtin myself right now.you know what i sayin yeah,exactly.
antico alright.
on the evening of july,barrafato discussed the proposed robbery in a series of telephone conversations with antico,lento,and frank martino,another associate of the genovese crime family.during the first call,at,barrafato spoke with martino about the possibility of recruiting paulie for the robbery of a pick winner.barrafato described the pick winner as a millionaire with whom paulie was acquainted 
barrafato y ou know a kid paulie with a skin head he got a bald head 
martino paulie yeah.
barrafato ok.uh there uh we got ta get i,when,when i see you,i talk to you.
martino ok.
barrafato yeah.we and uh,this,this thing here could go down cause i rather talk to you in person,you know 
h e could help us with where we could uh 
martino oh,yeah 
barrafato yeah,yeah.well and he stays with a guy that a millionaire.do you understand and uh but we ca let him know.capisce 
martino right.
barrafato you just got ta,cause you just got ta get him to,to us.
martino he,he always got,he always got those type of guys hangin around him,all the time 
barrafato yeyeah,the guy 
martino huh 
barrafato this is the guy that hit the pick for a million point six.he hit the pick 
martino he did 
barrafato yeah,a cou,a few years back.
app.antico does not suggest that the guy that hit the pick refers to anyone but gulinello.
after explaining that paulie could be enlisted to help rob gulinello,barrafato told martino that he personally knew the target of the robbery 
martino s o what could this kid paulie do for you 
barrafato well,i,i said i tell you when i see you how we got ta go for,for us.you know what i sayin this.where we could put maybe in our pockets.
i got the,listen,i got the guy.i know where the guy lives.i got,i got everythin on him.but i sayin,uh 
martino right.
barrafato h e knows,you know,he knows me,you know 
barrafato spoke with antico at on july,less than an hour after speaking with martino about robbing gulinello 
barrafato oh,i been,been runnin around tryin to put things together,you know 
antico and you got it together 
barrafato we gon na,we gon na do,we gon na,uh,do it this week.
antico with those,with those guys 
barrafato with no,no.somebody else.me and somebody else.
antico are you gon na they gon na do it they gon na do it 
barrafato i,i,i wan na go,i wan na go over it with you be,you know,before.
antico alright.
barrafato i talk to you uh,maybe uh,monday or,you know 
antico you,you got it.
four minutes later,at,barrafato called lento,who previously had helped barrafato drive gulinello to coney island to meet antico.barrafato urged lento to make himself available that week for,good.barrafato explained that he had spoken to frankie martino and that the participants would consist of me,you,him martino and we need one more guy,that all.but a good guy.barrafato informed lento that he also had spoken to antico about his plans and i,i just spoke to big nose and uh i guess,he gon na talk to frankie martino before,but you are down on it you and somebody else.addressing their financial woes,barrafato added,we now at least we get ourselves above water.app.
three days later,on july,barrafato told antico that he had done his homework and leg work to prepare,and that he had been over and would be able to do it during the weekend 
barrafato i want you to i told you to take care of that thing,that thing.you know.
antico yeah 
barrafato what i was tellin you yeah,we did a litwe did a little leg work.
antico huh 
barrafato we did some leg work on it,you know 
antico yeah.
barrafato yeah,yeah.we been over we gon na it do sic uh the weekend.
antico oh,yeah 
barrafato yeah.we did the leg work,you know 
antico yeah,yeah.
barrafato yeah,you got ta,you got ta do your homework.
antico all right.
barrafato and antico spoke again by telephone the following afternoon,on july.during the same conversation,antico specifically mentioned a plan to rob somebody,while barrafato suggested that they speak in person rather than by phone after he had everything prepared 
barrafato what doin,buddy 
antico you gon na rob anybody or just,you,you know hello 
barrafato yeah,yeah,yeah.
antico yeah.what happened 
barrafato all right.uh i gon na go out and do a couple things 
yeah,and uh we,we get everything prepared and uh,then,uh,i wan na touch base with you.like,you know 
antico go ahead.
barrafato i would like to see you in person,you know 
antico go ahead.do worry 
barrafato i wan na,i wan na tell you yeah.
antico too much.
app.barrafato and antico are heard laughing after antico said,you gon na rob anybody.the following day,july,a federal law enforcement agent visited barrafato at home,and the conspiracy to rob gulinello ended.
procedural history 
antico was charged in a superseding indictment the indictment.count one,which is most relevant to this appeal,charged him with conducting or participating in the conduct of a racketeering enterprise in violation of c,based on four predicate acts,any two of which would support a conviction of racketeering conspiracy.two of the predicate acts were a conspiracy to extort money from gulinello,in violation of new york penal law and,or to rob gulinello,in violation of new york penal law and,and illegal gambling,in violation of.the remaining counts charged antico with illegal gambling,robbery conspiracy,attempted robbery,and using and carrying a firearm in furtherance of a crime of violence.
at trial,the district court empaneled an anonymous jury before doing so,the court noted antico prior federal conviction in the united states district court for the eastern district of new york for racketeering with predicate acts of extortion and witness tampering.the district court also considered the seriousness of the charges,the lengthy prison sentences that convictions would entail,the evidence of antico efforts to interfere with the judicial process,and the ability of the defendant to enlist the resources of the genovese crime family.
antico was convicted of count one based on his participation in a conspiracy to extort money from or rob gulinello,and illegal gambling.the jury also convicted antico of a separate count of illegal gambling but acquitted him of the remaining counts against him.in november the district court sentenced antico principally to months imprisonment on the racketeering conviction in imposing sentence,the district court relied in part on testimony from a cooperating witness at trial,salvatore maniscalco,that antico recruited him to rob louis antonelli,a jeweler,of in jewelry and in cash.according to maniscalco,the robbery was botched and resulted in antonelli death.antico had been acquitted at trial of charges of robbery conspiracy and attempted robbery in connection with this scheme.
discussion 
sufficiency of the evidence 
antico argues that there was insufficient evidence that he agreed to extort money from or rob gulinello,which constituted one of the relevant predicate acts in the racketeering charge a defendant who challenges the sufficiency of the evidence after a conviction bears a heavy burden,united states desnoyers,cir quotation marks omitted,and we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution,united states heras,cir quotation mark omitted.under this exceedingly deferential standard of review,united states hassan,cir,we will affirm the conviction if any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt,heras,at quotation mark omitted.
under new york law,a person is guilty of conspiracy in the fourth degree when,with intent that conduct constituting a class b or class c felony be performed,he or she agrees with one or more persons to engage in or cause the performance of such conduct.penal law.a conspiracy charge require s the government to prove,beyond a reasonable doubt,that the defendant knew the specific nature of the conspiracy or underlying crime.proof that the defendant knew that some crime would be committed is not enough.united states friedman,cir citations omitted.penal law provides that a person is guilty of robbery in the second degree,a class c felony,when he forcibly steals property and is aided by another person actually present.penal law.to forcibly steal means to use or threaten the immediate use of physical force upon another person,penal law,though t he threatened use of force may be implicit when viewed under the totality of facts.people lopez,app.div d dep t.
the traditional deference accorded to a jury verdict is especially important when reviewing a conviction for conspiracy because a conspiracy by its very nature is a secretive operation,and it is a rare case where all aspects of a conspiracy can be laid bare in court with the precision of a surgeon scalpel.united states jackson,cir alteration in original quotation marks omitted.further,in a conspiracy case,as in any other,the government is entitled to prove its case solely through circumstantial evidence.united states rodriguez,cir.to the extent that the government relies on circumstantial evidence of a defendant participation in a conspiracy,however,we have cautioned that such 
circumstantial evidence of knowledge and specific intent sufficient to sustain a conviction must include some indicia of the specific elements of the underlying crime,such as proof of a defendant knowledge or intent through evidence that the defendant participated in conversations directly related to the substance of the conspiracy,proof that a defendant exercised authority within the conspiracy itself,or a defendant statements explicitly confirming the nature of the activity in which the were engaged.
friedman,at quotation marks and brackets omitted.
particularly when viewed in chronological order,the recorded telephone conversations involving barrafato,lento,martino and antico constitute circumstantial evidence that the group planned together to rob gulinello.see app.barrafato informing lento on june,that big nose said they both have money soon app.antico telling barrafato on july to start movin around app.barrafato telling antico on july,we puttin together with that thing over there.app.barrafato discussing with martino on july the possible recruitment of paulie to help get maybe from the guy that hit the pick six for a million point six app.barrafato telling antico on july,w e gon na,uh,do it this week,stating that he wanted to go over it with antico beforehand,and antico agreeing app.barrafato enlisting lento on july to work with him and martino on a matter that he previously discussed with antico.
the government also introduced direct evidence of antico involvement in the conspiracy to rob gulinello.during the recorded conversation between antico and barrafato on july,antico specifically asked,you gon na rob anybody app.barrafato responded,yeah,yeah,yeah,and both laughed.while it may be true,as antico maintains,that one interpretation of this conversation is that antico and barrafato were joking,a rational juror also could reasonably have viewed the conversation as referencing barrafato delays in robbing gulinello and reflecting the two men agreement to rob gulinello within the meaning of new york penal law and.see united states torres,cir w e defer to a jury assessments with respect to credibility and conflicting testimony,and to its choice between the competing inferences that can be drawn from the evidence.indeed,the evidence adduced at trial included another telephone conversation in which barrafato and antico referred to a house rob bery without a hint of laughter.see app.barrafato telling antico on july that those guys would look to house rob him,but that barrafato instructed them not to go near there.
in light of the prior recorded conversations between barrafato and antico from late june through july,the jury could infer that this last telephone exchange on july reflected antico instruction to rob gulinello,followed by barrafato affirmative agreement to commit the robbery with the help of other accomplices.see united states rosenblatt,cir.the jury could similarly infer that the planned robbery