reality television and talk radio are two of the more popular cultural phenomena of the new century.in the first,real people often compete for a prize under the most unrealistic,often demeaning conditions.in the second,a host discusses topics of current interest with live guests and audience members.these discussions often,though not always,include generous portions of insult and invective.given these programming themes,it was inevitable that a participant in a reality television competition would be insulted by a host and sue for defamation.
the instant appeal involves such a suit.defendants infinity broadcasting corporation,uzette salazar,vincent crackhorn and steve dinardo filed a special motion to strike plaintiff complaint and asserted that the suit constituted a slapp strategic lawsuit against public participation suit pursuant to code of civil procedure section hereafter.the trial court denied the motion.we conclude that the challenged commentary was made in connection with an issue of public interest,subd.e,even though much of it concerned plaintiff unwillingness to appear on the radio program.further,we determine that the insults uttered are not actionable under section and reverse the order of the trial court.
plaintiff participated as one of contestants in the television program who wants to marry a multimillionaire hereafter the show.in this program,women contestants competed for the right to marry a wealthy stranger.in addition to the marriage,complete with a prenuptial agreement,the bride received a wedding ring and a new car.plaintiff was not chosen to marry the putative multimillionaire,nor even selected as one of the five finalists,though she did appear briefly as a contestant in a portion of the television broadcast.during her time on air,she stated only her name,that she was from san francisco,and that she worked in sales at kfrc a san francisco radio station.her total participation in the television broadcast lasted less than one minute.though plaintiff was not paid for her participation in the show,she received the cost of the trip to las vegas and some gifts.
the taping of the show occurred before its airing on february,with all taping involving plaintiff being completed prior to february.to plaintiff knowledge,her name and likeness were neither aired nor made public in any way by the producers of the show before the television broadcast.
defendant uzette salazar uzette contacted plaintiff on or about february,and asked if she would participate in a discussion regarding the show on kllc sarah and vinnie morning radio program.plaintiff declined.she informed uzette that she competed in the contest only as a personal experience,and that she did not wish to be interviewed on their radio program because she did not want to bring attention to herself or to chance being ridiculed or subjected to public humiliation.she also told uzette that she was contractually prohibited from entering into any type of publicity concerning the show.
on february,during the radio program,but before the show was televised,the following colloquy occurred between sarah clark sarah and vincent crackhorn vinnie,kllc morning broadcast cohosts,along with uzette,the radio program producer 
vinnie and what is this,the marry a millionaire show 
sarah who wants to marry a millionaire 
vinnie right.
sarah it on tonight.two hour long thing.fifty chicks are gon na fight it out for the top five spots and then they all put on uh wedding gowns and somebody gets married at the end.
vinnie right.and we have uh,a local loser on the,on the prog 
sarah m,uh hum 
vinnie from what i heard.
uzette laughter.
vinnie now uh,this is,this is crackin me up because i not,and i not saying any names 
uzette i know.
vinnie whatever.
uzette go ahead.
vinnie but uh,this person apparently we were gon na have her on the show to see what her bucket all about,why she wants to marry some random guy 
sarah right.
vinnie and she would come on without like,tell me.
uzette she wanted like some written consent that we were going to bag on her,and uh,she,she just not,i do think she a real fan.
vinnie chicken butt 
uzette she actually works at another station 
sarah oh really 
vinnie chicken butt 
uzette and i found out more dirt about this girl,since we not saying her name.she actually is the of someone who works at our sister station down the hall.and uh yeh,he just says what a big skank she is.
sarah you ca say that that,that is so ridiculous.
sarah you know what you guys,do say any more because,ya know,because the person who on that show,and people are going to be able to figure out who it is.you ca be calling people skank.
vinnie no way.
sarah were you at that you just gave all the clues anyone would ever need.i could figure it out and i am stupid.
uzette anyway,it is coming from a jilted.what does he know.
sarah exactly uzette.
vinnie right.
sarah we were all in that same legal meeting.ah,kill me 
uzette i think i covered my tracks.
uzette boss 
sarah i hope so.
uzette please do fire me now.
sarah oh god.
vinnie funny.
uzette i am sure she a very nice girl.
sarah right.
uzette i do,i do think she won though.
sarah well right.if she did win i am sure she would be off on her honeymoon and not available for us to pick on.
vinnie i just think it so funny.a total chicken butt.wanted to,you know it like 
uzette we rag,we rag on each other.
vinnie stand up for yourself if 
sarah right.
vinnie if you wanted to go on the show.
sarah tell us why,that is the whole thing.
vinnie yeah,state your,state your reasons.
sarah so,you like money we like it too.that fine.
vinnie besides,all ya got ta do is tell me to shut up and walk away.what big deal.
sarah right.
vinnie so that so traumatic.never heard anything like that in my life.sign a freakin waiver so you wo call me names.whatever.anyway 
sarah she obviously in the business.most people just come on and go whatever,what do you want to know.oops.
uzette and then they are sorry for it.
vinnie anyway,the guy gets,tonight the special.it was taped last week in vegas.and it does feature a wedding.and the bride is unidentified at this point.
sarah i ca,i ought,i think i am gon na watch this.
vinnie and this guy and his new wife are currently on their honeymoon.
sarah good for them.
vinnie unbelievable.
sarah i telling you.i think this is going to be a really fun thing to watch.does he get to see their faces,and watch the whole thing as it happens 
vinnie hold on,let me see.
sarah or is he also in the dark like the old dating game.where you had to ask just the questions i know they do get to see him.
vinnie um,does say.
sarah alright.well,two hours,it on tonight.jay thomas is the host of it.
vinnie yeah,that that does say the details.yup.
after the radio program,but before the airing of the show,plaintiff received numerous telephone calls from individuals,business associates,and personal friends,stating that they were aware she had been humiliated on the broadcast.plaintiff became extremely upset and angry with her because she thought he had made the statements about her until he assured her he had not.plaintiff was never asked if he thought plaintiff was a skank and he never stated to anyone connected with kllc that his was a skank.the statement uzette attributed to him was false,and uzette later apologized to him for stating he had called plaintiff a big skank.
as a result of the radio broadcast,plaintiff filed a complaint against defendants alleging causes of action for slander per se slander invasion of privacy negligent hiring,retention and supervision of employees and intentional infliction of emotional distress.the trial court sustained demurrers to the causes of action for slander and intentional infliction of emotional distress,without leave to amend,because they were duplicative of other claims within the complaint.this appeal follows defendants unsuccessful concurrent motion to strike the complaint pursuant to section,subd.b.
discussion 
overview of california statute 
in,the legislature enacted section in an effort to curtail lawsuits brought primarily to chill the valid exercise of freedom of speech and petition for redress of grievances and to encourage continued participation in matters of public significance,subd.a.the section authorizes a special motion to strike a cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person right of petition or free speech under the united states or california constitution in connection with a public issue,subd.b.the goal is to eliminate meritless or retaliatory litigation at an early stage of the proceedings.liu moore th,d macias hartwell th,d.the statute directs the trial court to grant the special motion to strike unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim,subd.b.
the statutory language establishes a test.first,we determine whether plaintiff causes of action arose from acts by defendants in furtherance of defendants rights of petition or free speech in connection with a public issue.mission oaks ranch,county of santa barbara th,d,disapproved on another ground in briggs eden council for hope opportunity cal th,fn,d.assuming this threshold condition is satisfied,we then determine whether plaintiff has established a reasonable probability that she will prevail on her claims at trial.we must reverse the order denying the motion if plaintiff failed to make a prima facie showing in the trial court of facts,which,if proved at trial,would support a judgment in her favor.church of scientology wollersheim th,d.whether section applies and whether the plaintiff has shown a probability of prevailing are legal questions which we review independently on appeal.computerxpress,jackson th,d damon ocean hills journalism club th,d.
ii.plaintiff complaint falls within the purview of the statute 
to prevail on their motion to strike,defendants must make a threshold showing that they were sued for engaging in conduct covered by section.under the statutory language,such a threshold showing can be established in several circumstances,including if the party seeking the protection of the section demonstrates that it made the offending statement in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest,subd.e.
the defendants have satisfied this standard.the offending comments arose in the context of an discussion between the cohosts and their producer about a television show of significant interest to the public and the media.this program was a derivative of who wants to be a millionaire,which had proven successful in generating viewership and advertising revenue.before and after its network broadcast,who wants to marry a multimillionaire generated considerable debate within the media on what its advent signified about the condition of american society one concern focused on the sort of person willing to meet and marry a complete stranger on national television in exchange for the notoriety and financial rewards associated with the show and the presumed millionaire lifestyle to be furnished by the groom.by having chosen to participate as a contestant in the show,plaintiff voluntarily subjected herself to inevitable scrutiny and potential ridicule by the public and the media.
plaintiff argues that the offending comments by defendants were not directed at her participation in the television contest,but instead were directed at her refusal to participate in the radio program.the distinction is unpersuasive.to satisfy the first threshold requirement,the offending comments must have been made in connection with an issue of public interest,subd.e.furthermore,this requirement,like all of section,is to be construed broadly so as to encourage participation by all segments of our society in vigorous public debate related to issues of public interest,subd.a and see averill superior court th,d,subd.e intended to be given broad application in light of its purposes.
the topic under discussion on the radio program was plaintiff appearance on the show,and why she wants to marry some random guy.indeed,it is evident that defendants talked about plaintiff only because she had participated in the show.disparaging her refusal to appear on the radio program stand up for yourself if you wanted to go on the show.tell us why,that is the whole thing.yeah,state your,state your reasons.was indistinguishable from criticizing her participation in the televised contest.it was,in effect,the radio variant of the empty chair scenario,which is occasionally played out live or on television a participant in an issue of public controversy declines to appear at a forum to discuss the matter and the host sets a place at the table,an empty chair,to emphasize that the absence underlines the flaw in the party position thus,criticism of the refusal to defend her participation in the contest satisfies the requirement of being in connection with an issue of public interest,subd.e.
iii.it is unlikely plaintiff will prevail on her claim 
with defendants having established a prima facie case that they were sued after exercising their first amendment right to speech in a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest,the burden then shifts to plaintiff to establish there is a probability that she will prevail on her claims,subd.b evans unkow th,d.to meet this burden,plaintiff must demonstrate the complaint is legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.wilcox superior court th,d.the burden on the plaintiff is similar to the standard used in determining motions for nonsuit,directed verdict,or summary judgment.citations.kyle carmon th,d.to make our determination,we consider the pleadings,and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based,subd.b.the motion to strike should be granted if,as a matter of law,the properly pleaded facts do not support a claim for relief.citation.mission oaks ranch,county of santa barbara,supra,th at,d.
there can be no recovery for defamation without a falsehood.baker los angeles herald examiner cal d.thus,to state a defamation claim that survives a first amendment challenge,plaintiff must present evidence of a statement of fact that is provably false.milkovich lorain journal,d.statements do not imply a provably false factual assertion and thus can not form the basis of a defamation action if they can not reasonably be interpreted as stating actual facts about an individual.citations.thus,rhetorical hyperbole,vigorous epithet s,lusty and imaginative expression s of contempt,and language used in a loose,figurative sense have all been accorded constitutional protection.citations.ferlauto hamsher th,d.the dispositive question after the milkovich case is whether a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the published statements imply a provably false factual assertion.moyer amador valley union high school dist.d.
to ascertain whether the statements in question are provably false factual assertions,courts consider the totality of the circumstances.rudnick mcmillan th,d.first,the language of the statement is examined.for words to be defamatory,they must be understood in a defamatory sense next,the context in which the statement was made must be considered this contextual analysis demands that the courts look at the nature and full content of the communication and to the knowledge and understanding of the audience to whom the publication was directed.moyer amador valley union high school,supra,d at,quoting baker los angeles herald examiner,supra,cal d at.this crucial question of whether challenged statements convey the requisite factual imputation is ordinarily a question of law for the court.moyer amador valley union high school,supra,at,citing baker los angeles herald examiner,supra,at.
here,plaintiff complains about several derogatory comments made concerning her on the radio broadcast.vinnie referred to plaintiff once as a local loser and three times as a chicken butt,while uzette falsely claimed that plaintiff had said she was a big skank.a few seconds later,uzette qualified her remark by noting that her source had been a jilted,and w 