introduction 
hereafter kim and father are the biological parents of three nathan.father and his wife,amy,have raised nathan in their home since he was one month old.
in an action brought by kim for custody and visitation rights to her biological child,the trial court denied father motion to join amy as a party.father filed a petition for writ of prohibition to vacate the court order and to join amy in the action.
amy also brought a separate action against kim and father,to be declared nathan presumed mother the trial court granted kim motion to quash and dismissed that action.amy and father appealed that order.
in this consolidated petition and appeal,father and amy argue that amy is nathan presumed mother,and therefore the trial court erred in denying amy joinder or standing.father and amy arguments present the question of whether the statutory presumptions of paternity contained in the family code enable the wife of a man who fathered a child in an extramarital relationship to assert status as the child mother,when the child biological mother has come forward promptly to assert her maternal rights.
we answer no,and affirm.we uphold the trial court denial of father motion to join amy and its order granting kim motion to quash amy independent action.
factual and procedural background 
father is married to amy.during his marriage to amy,he had an extramarital relationship with kim,the real party in interest.that relationship resulted in a child,nathan.
during her relationship with father,kim was married to steven,but they were separated at the time of nathan conception and birth.
nathan is kim only child.father and amy have two daughters.
the parties disagree as to their intent and as to the circumstances of nathan conception and birth.father asserts kim offered to bear a child who would be raised as a child of his marriage to amy.kim contends her relationship with father was romantic,the pregnancy was unplanned,and that she expected they would raise nathan jointly.
kim concealed her pregnancy from business associates,acquaintances,family and friends and left california for virginia,where she gave birth to nathan.kim cared for nathan during his first month in virginia.
in june,when nathan was old,father came to virginia to take him to california.father met with kim in a hotel lobby.he presented kim with an agreement regarding custody and adoption the agreement,drafted by a maryland law firm he had retained.
the agreement provided father would have sole custody over nathan kim would have no visitation and kim consented to a stepparent adoption by amy.the agreement also contained recitals to the effect that kim acknowledged and was aware of her right to obtain independent counsel,father counsel had not provided her with any legal advice in connection with the agreement,she was executing the agreement freely and voluntarily,and the agreement was not the product of any fraud,duress or undue influence.kim and father signed the agreement while sitting in father limousine 
kim did not have a lawyer when she signed the document.she contends she did not understand what she was signing and felt pressured to do so.
after signing the agreement,they returned to the hotel lobby where father picked up nathan.kim handed father all of nathan clothes,formula,diapers and toys.that evening,father flew with nathan back to los angeles.
since june,nathan has lived continuously with father and his family and has never been alone with kim 
proceedings.
on september,kim filed a petition against father to establish parental relationship,seeking child support,custody and visitation.thereafter,kim brought an order to show cause.kim did not serve the papers until november.
father responded,requesting the court to deny kim the relief she requested and to enter a judgment of parentage recognizing amy as the mother.
father initial motion for joinder of amy as a necessary party.
on december,at a hearing on kim order to show cause,father argued that amy was a necessary party and kim custody request could not be heard without amy joinder.the trial court denied father request for joinder,ruling,inter alia,amy is completely aligned with father and therefore her interests were adequately protected.
in a supplemental memorandum of points and authorities,father unsuccessfully argued,inter alia,amy was the presumed natural mother of nathan pursuant to family code section,subdivision d because she has taken him into her home,held him out as her son,and played all the social,psychological and economic roles of mother since he was one month old 
amy independent action to establish parental relationship.
on january,after father failed in his attempt to join amy in kim action,amy filed a separate action,naming kim and father,to establish her status as nathan mother.amy brought the action pursuant to section,which provides in relevant part any interested person may bring an action to determine the existence or nonexistence of a mother and child relationship,subd.a.
on june,the trial court granted kim motion to quash,ruling that amy was not an interested person within the meaning of section because she was not biologically related to the child with whom she sought to establish a parental relationship.
thereafter,the trial court granted reconsideration,again granted the motion to quash,and dismissed amy action with prejudice.
on march,amy and father filed a timely notice of appeal from the order of dismissal.
proceedings in kim action trial court again denies joinder of amy.
turning our focus back to kim action,on february,the trial court ordered that kim have monitored visitation with nathan for four hours per week.
on march,the parties stipulated to the appointment of jeffrey lulow to conduct a child custody evaluation.
on august,father filed a written motion for joinder of amy as well as steven.with respect to the facts showing that amy was either indispensable or a necessary party,the motion denied kim parentage and contended amy is nathan mother,amy has exercised actual custody of nathan and asserted custody rights since nathan was less than a month old,and a complete and effective judgment could not be had without joining amy as a party.
father also sought to join steven,kim husband at the time of the child conception and birth,in order to establish father paternity with finality.
father argued joinder was mandatory and complete relief could not be had without joining amy and steven as parties.
on august,nearly months after the march,order appointing lulow,he completed his evaluation.
on september,steven filed a responsive declaration stating he was making no claim to parentage of nathan,that he was willing to appear in the action solely for the purpose of entering into a binding waiver of a claim to parentage,and that he did not wish to be otherwise joined as a party to the litigation.
by way of opposition to the joinder motion,kim argued amy was merely a stepparent and she had no standing to allege maternity.
on october,the matter came on for hearing.the trial court refused to take judicial notice of the child custody evaluation for purposes of the joinder motion and stated it had not read the report.the trial court denied father motion for joinder of amy and steven 
the reporter transcript of the hearing on the joinder motion sets forth the trial court reasoning herein.the trial court repeatedly asked,how is amy any different from a nanny the trial court also commented,amy does have custody rights.father has custody rights.and she happens to live with father.
subsequent proceedings.
on december,father filed the instant petition for writ of prohibition or other appropriate relief,seeking to preclude the trial court from conducting a trial in this matter without first joining amy and steven as parties.
this court issued an order to show cause,stayed proceedings in the trial court,granted a motion to expedite the appeal,and consolidated the appeal and the writ petition for hearing before this court.
contentions 
in the writ petition and appeal,amy and father contend the trial court erred in denying father motion to join amy and in granting kim motion to quash amy independent action.we summarize their contentions as follows 
amy must be joined in the action pursuant to code of civil procedure section,subdivision a,and family law rules,california rules of court,rule a 
amy is an interested person under section,subdivision a,and therefore has standing to maintain her independent action to establish a relationship 
section,subdivision a,mandates application of the presumed father statutes 
amy is nathan presumed mother under sections,subdivisions a and d,and 
any interpretation of the relevant family code provisions to deny amy joinder or standing violates equal protection and due process and 
amy has standing to assert equitable estoppel.
father additionally contends the trial court erred in failing to join steven.
we reject all of their contentions.we find no error in the trial court denial of father motion to join amy,and therefore deny father petition for writ of prohibition.we also affirm the trial court grant of kim motion to quash amy independent action.
discussion 
standard of review 
the essential facts,including kim status as nathan biological mother,father biological paternity,and amy status as father spouse,are undisputed.therefore,the essential issue presented is whether amy is entitled to joinder or standing pursuant to provisions found in either the code of civil procedure or the family code.statutory interpretation is a question of law,which appellate courts review de novo.citations.librers black th,d.
overview of arguments pertinent joinder and standing provisions invoked by father and amy.
compulsory joinder code of civil procedure section,subdivision a.
generally,a person shall be joined as a party in the action if she claims an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so situated that the disposition of the action in her absence may as a practical matter impair or impede her ability to protect that interest code civ,subd.a.
county of los angeles sheldon th,d held a person who meets the criteria of code of civil procedure section,subdivision a,must be joined even if the person to be joined has little chance of prevailing on the merits.in that case,the child biological father requested another man be joined who was not the child biological father and who had no social relationship with the child,but who had signed a voluntary declaration of paternity at the time the child was born.sheldon,supra,at,d.because the voluntary declaration of paternity gave the other man status as a presumed father and entitled him to certain rights,and that person absence from the action could impair that person interest,joinder was required.id.at,d.
father contends that,like the voluntary declarant in sheldon who had a claim to be the child father,amy has a claim to be nathan mother.therefore,amy joinder is mandatory pursuant to code of civil procedure section,subdivision a,because her absence in this action will impede or impair her ability to protect this interest.
joinder under section,subdivision b.
section,subdivision b,sets forth persons who may be made parties to a parentage action.the natural mother,each man presumed to be the father under section,and each man alleged to be the natural father,may be made parties and shall be given notice of the action and an opportunity to be heard,subd.b.
generally,the rules set forth in the uniform parentage act upa et pertaining to paternity actions apply equally to maternity actions under section,subdivision a father argues we read section,subdivision b,in a manner,thus amy joinder,subd.a,subd.b.
joinder under rule a.
rule a provides the court must order joined as a party to the proceeding any person the court discovers has physical custody or claims custody or visitation rights with respect to any minor child of the marriage.italics added.father and amy do not dispute nathan birth arose from an extramarital affair between father and kim,and not from the marital relationship between father and amy.father and amy do not claim to have adopted nathan.rather,they argue,through a application of the family code,nathan is presumed to be a child of the marriage because amy was married to and cohabiting with father when nathan was born.because amy claims custody over nathan,and amy and father argue nathan is a presumed child of the marriage,father contends amy must be made a party to the action.
standing to bring maternity action under section,subdivision a.
section,subdivision a allows any interested person standing to bring a maternity action.father and amy argue amy is an interested person because she claims to be nathan mother,and therefore the trial court erred in granting kim motion to quash amy independent action.
having set forth father and amy theories,we now turn to the merits.
father and amy arguments are unavailing because amy can not be deemed to be nathan mother.
as outlined above,father and amy arguments all are predicated on amy claim she is nathan mother.therefore,our threshold question is whether amy can assert status as nathan mother in view of the undisputed fact that kim,a party to both actions,is nathan biological mother.
amy and father advance several arguments as to why amy can allege status as nathan mother.amy and father allege amy is nathan presumed mother under section,subdivisions a and d.they further allege amy is conclusively presumed to be nathan mother under section.they also take the position amy is nathan natural mother within the meaning of section,subdivision b.based on any and all of these claims,amy and father argue amy is entitled either to joinder in kim action or to standing to bring an independent maternity action.as explained,none of these theories has merit.
amy can not establish status as nathan presumed mother under section,subdivisions a and d.
section sets forth various circumstances wherein the court will presume a man to be a child father.a man is presumed to be the natural father of the child if a he and the child natural mother are or have been married to each other and the child is born during the marriage,subd.a.a man is also presumed to be the natural father of the child if h e receives the child into his home and openly holds out the child as his natural child,subd.d.
the upa specifically provides maternity may be established by proof of her having given birth to the child,or under this part,the upa,et seq,subd.a,italics added.the upa also provides,as discussed above,the rules pertaining to paternity actions apply equally to maternity actions,subd.a.therefore,the question presented is the applicability of section,pertaining to presumed fathers,to amy.
in general,california law only recognizes one mother.johnson calvert cal th,fn,d.amy and father do not dispute that kim gave birth to nathan,making kim the natural mother under section,subdivision a.however,because section,subdivision a,provides maternity may be established by proof of her having given birth to the child,or under this part,the upa,subd.a,italics added,amy and father assert amy maternity based on the presumed father provisions of section,subdivisions a and d,which they seek to apply in a manner.amy and father argue amy is nathan presumed mother under section,subdivision a,by virtue of her marriage to father,and under section,subdivision d,because she received nathan into her home and held him out as her own child.neither the case law nor the statutory framework supports this argument.
in limited circumstances,the presumptions of paternity listed in section have been interpreted to apply to women.see,in re karen th,d in re salvador th,d elisa superior court cal th,d.
in karen,the birth mother gave her child to another woman when the child was born and subsequently absented herself.in re karen,supra,th at,d.the other woman,who took the child into her home and raised the child as her own,was presumed to be the child mother under section,subdivision d.karen,at,d.similarly,in salvador,where the birth mother was deceased,the child adult who raised the child since his mother death was presumed to be his mother under section,subdivision d.in re salvador,supra,th at,d.thus,in both karen and salvador,the birth mother was absent and there was no competing claim to maternity.
elisa applied section,subdivision d,to declare a woman,elisa,a presumed mother of the twin children born to her partner,emily.elisa superior court,supra,cal th at,d.after the relationship ended,a county district attorney sued elisa for child support on behalf of the twins.id.at,d.elisa had actively participated in causing the children to be conceived with the understanding that she would raise the children as her own together with emily.once the children were born,elisa received them into her home and openly held them out as her own.id.at,d.given these circumstances,the court declared elisa a presumed mother under section,subdivision d,perceiving no reason why both parents of a child can not be women.elisa superior court,supra,at,d.in reaching this conclusion,the court specifically noted there were no competing claims to her being the children second parent.id.at,d,italics added.
father and amy rely on elisa for the proposition that section should apply in maternity cases even where the child birth mother is present and asserts legal parenthood.however,elisa is distinguishable.here,nathan natural father is known and present in the action.nathan only can have one additional parent.both father and amy concede that kim is nathan biological mother.by alleging presumed maternity,amy advances a competing claim to be nathan second parent.because the absence of a competing claim to be the second parent specifically drove the elisa court decision,elisa can not control this case.
the cases cited by amy and father where the courts applied the presumed father statute,section,to recognize a presumed mother all involved circumstances where there was no competing claim to be the child mother or second parent.elisa superior court,supra,cal th at,d,in re karen,supra,th at,d in re salvador,supra,th at,d.here,unlike those cases,both the child biological father and biological mother have identified themselves and come forward to assert their legal parentage.under these circumstances,it is not appropriate to invoke a reading of the paternity presumptions to provide nathan with another mother.to allow amy an opportunity to be declared nathan mother through a reading of the upa would arrive at an impracticable result,subd.a.
jesusa is unavailing to father and amy.
moreover,the upa framework does not support amy joinder or standing as an alleged presumed mother under section because the statutory scheme provides no mechanism to resolve her and kim competing maternity claims.amy and father argue section,subdivision b,would direct the trial court to weigh evidence pertaining to policy and logic to determine whether amy or kim would prevail as nathan legal mother,subd.b.
in support of their theory,father and amy cite in re jesusa cal th,d.in that case,section,subdivision b,was utilized to resolve competing paternity claims between the child biological father,who qualified under section,subdivision d,and the mother husband,who qualified under section,subdivisions a and d.in re jesusa,supra,cal th at,d,see also craig sandy th,d applying jesusa to competing claims of paternity.
father and amy argument fails because,unlike jesusa,this case does not present a conflict between two persons presumed to be a child parent under section.kim is not nathan presumed mother under section rather her maternity is established under section,subdivision a,based on her having given birth to nathan.
section,subdivision b,specifically applies to two or more presumptions aris ing under section,such as was the case in jesusa,subd.b in re jesusa,supra,cal th at,d.accordingly,section,subdivision b,does not apply where a presumed maternity claim arising under a reading of section conflicts with a maternity claim pursuant to section,subdivision a.no mechanism exists in other provisions of the upa to resolve such a conflict.therefore,we do not find the upa framework allows amy an opportunity to assert status as nathan presumed mother where kim,nathan biological mother,has come forward promptly to assert her maternal rights.
amy is not nathan presumed mother under section.
father and amy alternatively contend amy is conclusively presumed to be nathan mother under section,which provides,except as provided in section,the child of a wife cohabiting with her husband,who is not impotent or sterile,is conclusively presumed to be a child of the marriage,italics added.according to father and amy,because section,subdivision a,mandates application of paternity rules to maternity actions,nathan is conclusively presumed to be a child of father and amy marriage under section.
their argument is without merit.in their interpretation of section,amy and father overlook the statute qualifying phrase except as provided in section,italics added.section,subdivision a,overrides the presumption of paternity under section if blood tests reveal that the biological mother husband is not the father of the child assuming,arguendo,that we apply a reading of section,we must also apply a reading of section,which would negate a wife conclusive presumption of maternity when blood tests reveal she is not the mother of the child.
here,no blood tests are required.it is undisputed that kim,not amy,is nathan biological mother.accordingly,amy can not enjoy a conclusive presumption of maternity under section.
amy can not assert status as nathan natural mother 
we also reject amy and father additional suggestion that amy is nathan natural mother,and therefore can be joined pursuant to section,subdivision b.while the word natural is not always interpreted as synonymous with biological see,in re nicholas cal th,d,the language of section,subdivision b,expressly refers to the natural mother and also differentiates between each man presumed to be the father under section,and each man alleged to be the natural father,subd.b,italics added.because the statutory language provides this distinction,we interpret natural mother here to refer to the biological mother.thus,amy can not be deemed to be nathan natural mother.
preliminary conclusion trial court did not err in refusing to join amy or in granting kim motion to quash amy separate action.
for the reasons discussed above,we hold,where as here,a birth mother promptly comes forward to assert her legal maternity,and the child father is undisputed and present in the action,the father spouse can not be the child natural mother or the child presumed mother through a reading of either section,subdivisions a and d,or section.
because amy can not legally be nathan mother under these circumstances,amy can not claim an interest relating to the subject of the action which would require her joinder under code of civil procedure section,subdivision a.amy is not nathan natural mother or presumed mother and therefore is not a person who may be made a party to the action under family code section,subdivision b for the same reasons,she is not an interested person within the meaning of section,subdivision a and she can not claim custody rights under rule a because nathan is not a child of the marriage between amy and father.
for these reasons,we find no error in either the trial court denial of father motion to join amy or its grant of kim motion to quash amy independent action.
the statutory scheme does not violate equal protection or due process.
equal protection.
amy and father contend an interpretation of the statutory scheme which denies amy joinder or standing violates equal protection.
father and amy rely on elisa for the proposition that the statutory scheme,if interpreted to deny amy joinder,violates equal protection on the basis of sexual orientation.elisa held a woman in a relationship with the biological mother could be declared the child presumed mother under section,subdivision d,even though the biological mother is present in the action.see elisa superior court,supra,cal th at,d.father and amy argue that to deny amy a similar opportunity to establish status as a presumed mother effectively treats a heterosexual woman differently than a similarly situated woman in a relationship.
relying on jesusa,father and amy also argue that the statutory scheme,if applied to deny amy joinder,vi