petitioner arnetta williams petitioned the circuit court of cook county to appoint her temporary guardian of her cousin,mary ann wilson.the circuit court granted her motion and named her temporary guardian of wilson and her estate.respondent karen bailey filed a preliminary injunction seeking to enjoin petitioner from exercising any authority pursuant to the circuit court grant of temporary guardianship.the circuit court denied respondent motion for a preliminary injunction and respondent appealed,claiming that the circuit court lacked subject matter jurisdiction for failure to meet the requirements of section of the illinois power of attorney act the power of attorney act ilcs west and section e of the probate act of the probate act ilcs e west.for the reasons that follow,we affirm the judgment of the circuit court.
background 
mary ann wilson was born on april,and lived at south sangamon street in chicago,illinois,on may.on that same day,wilson was discovered in her home totally abandoned,in feces,confused,unable to walk or talk,and had lost a lot of weight.protective services were called and wilson was admitted to elizabeth hospital,where a psychiatric evaluation revealed that she was oriented only to name,unable to give her medical history,and had impaired concentration.on may,isaac heard,wilson brother from north carolina,filed petitions seeking the appointment of arnetta williams,wilson cousin,as guardian for wilson and one seeking to appoint williams as temporary guardian the circuit court appointed sandra thiel as guardian ad litem gal for wilson and directed her to furnish the court with a written report on may,when it would rule on the petition for temporary guardianship pursuant to section of the probate act.
on may,the gal filed her written report relative to her meeting with wilson and appeared before the court for a hearing,where williams was also present.the gal presented serious concerns to the circuit court regarding wilson physical and financial condition.the gal also discovered that karen bailey was wilson agent under several powers of attorney for her property,real estate and health care issued in january.williams and the gal presented information to the court that bank accounts containing over had been withdrawn by bailey pursuant to her authority under the power of attorney.due to the deplorable circumstances under which wilson was discovered,as well as her health and mental issues,the gal strongly urged the circuit court to temporarily suspend the powers of attorney granted to bailey.
based on the preliminary information and the gal recommendation,the circuit court temporarily suspended bailey authority under the powers of attorney naming her wilson agent and appointed williams as temporary guardian until a hearing on the petition for plenary guardianship could be heard.the court directed williams through the order appointing her temporary guardian to arrange for routine medical care place wilson in the south shore nursing and rehabilitation center investigate funds and mail belonging to wilson investigate the powers of attorney and have access to all of wilson medical records.
on june,bailey filed an emergency motion to vacate the circuit court order appointing williams as temporary guardian and sandra thiel as gal issue a temporary restraining order tro against williams and the gal from any further action concerning wilson and issue a mandatory injunction for arnetta williams to reveal the whereabouts of and account for the same.on june,the circuit court heard arguments in a hearing on bailey emergency motion.during the hearing,david service,wilson stepson and bailey husband,appeared on june,and filed a petition for guardianship which he withdrew,leaving bailey as the only party seeking vacation of the circuit court may order.the following colloquy occurred relative to what williams had learned since the may,order had been issued 
williams i discovered some very disturbing things.
the court for example 
for example,wilson had a usb account that had approximately in it,
a.that had been withdrawn by karen bailey.
do you know when 
yes august it was.
was the initial withdrawal.that was into credit union one,credit union,and i believe that bailey personal credit union.
q.so that was of the 
yes and then the balance of that was withdrawn in november last year.
do you know what happened to the proceeds 
a.that money was deposited into mary wilson account at lasalle bank.since that time the money has been pretty much withdrawn.that account has been as high as a hundred and well,i do know.
and that gone.it down to about now.
three thousand 
yes,it about according sic to my preliminary calculations.
okay.so brady sic,what brings you to court today,sir 
braden attorney for respondent bailey the whole purpose of this motion,i sure you read it,is to vacate all orders here.the reason is,our position is that the provisions of the statute has not been followed here,that karen bailey has the power of attorney.
and it my understanding from reading the statute that when there a power of attorney that the court does not have jurisdiction to proceed on entering guardianship orders and also unless the court proceeds in accordance with the provisions in the power of attorney act,under that section of the relationship of the agent and the court that a separate hearing be conducted to determine whether the agent had acted in the best interest of the ward,and that has not been done.in addition,karen bailey has not been notified of any of these proceedings and it my understanding that she should have been.she should have been notified.
q.did i strike 
braden this was her first time.
the court did i suspend the powers of the poa 
williams yes because it suspicious.
braden today she been served and she is aware of everything that has happened,and that my point,judge,that my point.
the court well,counsel,let me ask you.can i get our sic client under oath and have her answer questions as to what happened to judge,all this money can we get that done 
braden look,judge,if we had a hearing,if we had a hearing 
the court i would like to know now because i concerned.these are serious allegations.
braden she was acting in accordance with her power of attorney to do that,and if you want to put her under oath,of course,she filed a verified petition,but she prepared to.
the court it does go into the particulars of the assets,though.
the court when did you first start acting as power of attorney for property,taking care of the assets of mary wilson 
karen bailey january of.maybe it was february,i not sure.
q.what was the value of her estate at that time,total value 
probably i not sure,total value may be two hundred and something,i not sure.
well,you were the power of attorney.what was the value on the date you took over you do know 
no,your honor.
i not sure.
let go on to something else.was there money withdrawn from her account,this usb one 
yes,it was.
q.what happened to the 
i withdrew it because under her,her and her husband,he told me to withdraw.
it both of their account.when he got married,he stated to us that he helped her with that money.
wait.the account had her name on it 
exactly,her and him.
q.so it her assets.and you her power of attorney and you taking orders from him 
a.her husband.her and him stated to me that they wanted it out of the bank.i can only go by what they was telling me.
well,no,you supposed to be talking to your principal who is she,not he.
q.so you withdrew how much 
a.it was first because they sent a letter,a thing saying that she could get or whatever.she said she wanted her money.
q.so what happened 
i put it in a box.
i just trying to get a picture.what happened you took cash.and it was in what kind of box 
a.it was a lock box from a.
bailey further testified under oath that she eventually withdrew over in cash from the usb account and added it to an additional in cash in a box that was stored in wilson closet.bailey also testified that she and her husband,wilson stepson,paid for an addition to her house with wilson money so that wilson and her husband could live with her and her husband.bailey produced no receipts 