it is a cardinal principle of our jurisprudence that a party should not be bound or concluded by a judgment unless he has had his day in court.this means that a party must be duly cited to appear and afforded an opportunity to be heard and to offer evidence at such hearing in support of his contentions.his right to a hearing does not depend upon the will,caprice or discretion of the trial judge who is to make a decision upon the issues.an order or judgment without such an opportunity is lacking in all the attributes of a judicial determination.citations.refusal to permit counsel to present evidence and make a reasonable argument in support of his client position i s not a mere error in procedure.it amount s to a deprival of a substantial statutory right spector superior court cal d,spector.
only judge when you have heard all.greek proverb.
this case invites application of the above principles to an unusual and perhaps unprecedented fact situation in a routine dissolution case,the family law judge suddenly declared an end to the trial before the husband had finished putting on his.after displaying impatience and reluctance in allowing the parties adequate time to complete their presentations,the judge ended the trial while an expert witness for the husband was on the witness stand and counsel was in the midst of asking him a question.
we shall conclude that the trial court actions deprived the husband of his due process right to a fair hearing.we shall reverse the judgment and direct the matter be retried.
factual and procedural background 
after years of marriage,respondent mona lea carlsson mona filed the instant petition for dissolution of marriage from her husband ulf johan carlsson ulf in april the issue of custody of their minor child was referred to a special master,and was not included in the proceedings below.
a brief synopsis of the main disputed issues follows.
spousal support 
ulf was a state employee.mona,on the other hand,worked part time at a dental office.ulf asserted that mona was underemployed and should be imputed with a income for purposes of computing his support obligation.he also claimed the imputation would result in an award of zero spousal support.
family residence 
the parties owned a family home in gold river.ulf requested that he be awarded the house and that mona receive half of the community equity.mona was initially agreeable to this proposal,but during the trial changed her mind and asked that the home be sold.there was substantial disagreement between the parties experts on the value of the home.
rental property 
during the marriage,the carlssons acquired an interest in rental property in sacramento.ownership interest in the rental property was the subject of intense dispute.the couple initially had a silent partner,scott moore,who was to contribute his labor in renovating the property however,moore was called up to army duty in guantanamo bay and iraq,and ended up transferring his interest to the carlssons.
ulf claimed that he subsequently entered into a partnership agreement with joseph mayo,on the rental property,with mona consent.he maintained that mona secretly filed divorce papers just before mayo name was to be placed on title,in an attempt to deprive mayo of his interest in the property 
ulf retirement plan 
ulf asked for an equal division of the community interest in his pers retirement pension and requested that it be divided into two separate accounts to prevent mona from receiving a windfall from ulf postdissolution contributions to his pension.mona opposed segregation of the retirement account.
attorney fees 
ulf requested that each party bear his or her own attorney fees.mona asked that ulf pay of her bill for expert and attorney fees.
trial took place before judge peter mcbrien for a full day on march and on two half days,march and.
from the beginning,judge mcbrien manifested his impatience with ulf counsel,sharon huddle,and the pace of the proceedings.at one point during the first day of trial,attorney huddle questioned why trial was continuing through the lunch hour 
huddle your honor,i am going to have to eat.
the court the reason i am going forward is because tomorrow afternoon i have a continuing trial.it has statutory preference.so,i insuring that we going to complete it by noon tomorrow.otherwise,we may as well call a mistrial right now.statutory preference.
huddle well,i have one witness driving up from orange county and another is driving from tulare county today.
the court that fine.
huddle i do know did have any breakfast.i assumed i was going to get some lunch.
the court i not intending to go with no break for anyone.i suggesting that maybe we can finish with this witness and take a short break 
huddle okay.i also have the two experts coming tomorrow.
the court all i telling you is if it not completed by noon,it a mistrial.
huddle well,i the value on the family residence has to be decided.there has to be an expert on that.
the court i do intend to argue with you either.i telling you exactly what my availability is and if you want a mistrial at this point,you welcome to it.
huddle your honor,we set the matter for two days.italics added.
during the half day of trial on march,judge mcbrien issued a sua sponte order that ulf produce certain annual conflict of interest documents required by the fair political practices commission and filed with the secretary of state.he also advised ulf to consult an attorney regarding his exposure to potential penalties far beyond what we talking about today.
the next half day proceedings began on march with judge mcbrien expressing frustration and anger at the fact that the documents had not been produced.
the court on the record,did your client consult some legal advice regarding that issue 
huddle i found him a lawyer.
the court did he bring the documents with him 
huddle he never went to work.he is on disability he does have them.
the court so,he has violated my request to bring those documents 
huddle the way i heard you say it,it was a suggestion that he bring them.
the court do you want me to have the record read 
huddle he would have to go to work to see if he even has a copy.
the court,i would suggest that he send somebody to his workplace to get those documents before we conclude this trial.
attorney huddle then objected that the documents were irrelevant to the division of community property.the judge overruled the objection,remarking that,while the documents were not relevant to the present case,they may be relevant to other proceedings.huddle pointed out that since the court had suggested possible criminal penalties,ulf might want to assert his fifth amendment privilege,but the judge rejected that assertion out of hand.
attorney huddle told the judge,i do know what to do in a situation like this when you actually asking him to produce evidence which might incriminate him and it not even the opposing side presenting it.judge mcbrien responded,huddle,am i to take that as a no placing you in the possibility of contempt to which she replied,no.i will tell him to go get the records.at that point,the next witness was called and the court abandoned all further interest in the subject.
as the trial extended into the late afternoon of march without a break,the following exchange occurred 
keeley mona attorney i have no further questions at this time,but i would ask that the witness not be released.
the court okay.huddle 
huddle your honor,is there any way i could get a break to use the ladies room 
the court you know,you approaching a mistrial.
huddle i have even been able to talk to the gentleman who went to work to get the records you requested.he has returned.i do know what he has to say.
the court okay.is that why you asking for a break 
huddle no.i do need to use the ladies room.we have been here 
the court why do we take a recess,but i guarantee you,if this is not completed by,there will be a mistrial.italics added.
following the recess and to expedite proceedings,both counsel notified the court they were waiving their respective claims with respect to minor monetary issues.in a further effort to save time,attorney huddle conducted a very