the opinion filed february,and appearing at,wl is amended as follows 
following the first sentence in the third full paragraph,insert the sentence the tax court opinion is attached as an appendix.
the tax court opinion,load,comm r,cch,wl,in its entirety,is attached to this opinion as an appendix.
appellants load,and coad,challenge the tax court determination of a federal income tax deficiency for the tax year ending september.the tax court held that certain of adi expenses were not deductible as ordinary and necessary business expenses under a and must be capitalized as inventory costs under.
we review the tax court findings of fact for clear error and its conclusions of law de novo.kelley comm r,cir.our exclusive jurisdiction to review a final decision of the tax court arises under.
the tax court wrote an extensive opinion on this matter.see load,comm r,cch,wl.the tax court opinion is attached as an appendix.we approve and adopt that opinion as governing this case.
accordingly,we affirm.
wl,cch,ria,wl ria tc memo 
united states tax court.
load,petitioner 
commissioner of internal revenue,respondent.
coad,petitioner 
commissioner of internal revenue,respondent.
background taxpayers,sister companies engaged in buying and selling manufactured homes,petitioned for redetermination of deficiencies arising from disallowance of business expense deductions.
holdings the tax court,swift,held that 
costs associated with placing model homes on retail sales lots were outside storage facility exception to inventory rule,and 
same costs were also outside marketing,selling,advertising,and distribution exception to inventory rule.
decision for irs.
memorandum findings of fact and opinion 
swift,judge.
respondent determined deficiencies in petitioners federal income taxes for their separate taxable years ending september,as follows 
unless otherwise indicated,all section references are to the internal revenue code in effect for the year in issue.
the issue for decision is whether certain costs relating to manufactured homes that petitioners owned and placed on retail sales lots in order to assist local independent salespersons in the sale of manufactured homes may be currently deducted under section as ordinary and necessary business expenses or whether they should be included under section in petitioners inventory costs relating to the manufactured homes.
petitioners and other related corporations are either subsidiaries of,or sister corporations to,associated dealers,adi,a nevada corporation.
adi and of adi related corporations also have filed petitions with the court relating to the same expense versus inventory issue that is involved herein and respondent,adi,and the other related petitioners have agreed to be bound by the final outcome of this issue in these two consolidated cases.
hereinafter,we generally use the acronym adi indiscriminately to refer to petitioners,to adi,and to the corporations.
findings of fact 
some of the facts have been stipulated and are so found.
at the time the petitions were filed,both petitioners principal places of business were located in reno,nevada.
adi and its related corporations buy and sell manufactured homes in the same manner.
manufactured homes are constructed at a factory location and are then transported directly to homesites of retail purchasers.
adi has been selling manufactured homes for more than years,and adi has become the largest seller of manufactured homes in arizona and one of the largest sellers of manufactured homes in the southwestern united states.in recent years,adi has expanded its sales of manufactured homes to locations in states.
from the through the late,adi purchased completed manufactured homes from unrelated manufacturers and sold the manufactured homes directly to retail customers using individual salespersons who worked for adi as employees.
in the late,however,as a result of a significant decline in business and excessive costs such as employee wages and commissions,a number of manufacturers of manufactured homes closed factories,and many sellers of manufactured homes went out of business.
to adjust to the changing market conditions and to reduce costs,in approximately adi adopted a revised business plan and restructured its sales operation.under adi revised business plan,adi salespersons are given a more active role in the sales activities and act as independent contractors adi 
under the agreements adi enters into with the independent salespersons,adi purchases from manufacturers a number of model manufactured homes and places the model manufactured homes on retail sales lots that adi leases for the purpose of displaying the manufactured homes to the public and to potential retail customers.
the retail sales lots that adi leases generally are located in prominent,high traffic the same sales lots adi had leased and used in prior years or new sales lots.these lots are not leased by adi as storage lots,but rather the lots are leased by adi as sales lots for the sale of manufactured homes.
adi places the model manufactured homes on the sales lots to attract public attention,to provide an opportunity for interested retail customers to inspect the types of manufactured homes that are available for purchase,and in order that the independent salespersons have manufactured homes on the sales lots to show to customers.
on any one sales lot,adi generally places on display six to seven model manufactured homes that adi has purchased from manufacturers,each with different features and floor plan.
during their inspection of adi model manufactured homes,retail customers generally are accompanied by one of the independent salespersons who has contracted with adi.the independent salespersons discuss with customers the advantages of manufactured homes,the various features of the model homes that are on display and that can be custom ordered,and they seek to convince the customers to purchase a manufactured home.
once a retail customer decides to purchase a manufactured home,the customer and the independent salesperson fill out a written purchase agreement and bill of sale on which they indicate which floor plan,appliances,and other features and colors are to be included in the particular manufactured home that is being purchased.on the purchase agreement and bill of sale,the customer is shown as purchasing the manufactured home from the independent salesperson.the independent salesperson then submits to adi the customer purchase agreement and bill of sale.
the retail selling prices of the manufactured homes appear to range from approximately to more than.
upon receipt by adi of a customer purchase agreement and upon approval of the customer financing,if any,adi forwards its own written purchase order to the specified manufacturer for construction of the manufactured home that has been ordered.
upon completion of the manufactured within to manufactured home is shipped directly by the manufacturer to the retail customer homesite for installation and occupancy.
if a customer homesite is not ready for delivery,if the occupancy permit has not been issued or if the utility hookups for the home have not been completed,the completed manufactured home may be delivered to one of adi nearby sales lots until the customer homesite is ready for installation of the manufactured home.in this latter situation,the length of time the completed and sold manufactured home remains on adi sales lots varies from a few days to several months depending on how long it takes for the customer homesite to be completed.
under the written contracts that are entered into between adi and the manufacturers,between the independent salespersons and adi,and between retail customers and the independent salespersons,upon completion the manufactured homes are sold by the manufacturers to adi,by adi to the independent salespersons,and by the independent to the retail customers.
of manufactured homes sold by adi,approximately percent are custom ordered by retail customers based on the decisions and selections customers make in their discussions and negotiations with the independent salespersons and while inspecting adi model manufactured ho