the bard of avon once warned that delays have dangerous ends.william shakespeare,the first part of king henry the sixth act,sc.this case,in which the plaintiffs procrastinated for the better part of three years and cavalierly flouted the discovery deadlines announced by the district court,bears out that admonition.the tale follows.
the pertinent facts are easily summarized.the plaintiffs claim to be members of the new progressive party npp.in the general election,held in november of,the npp lost control of puerto rico central government and its main rival,the popular democratic party pdp,ascended to power.a new administration took office in january of.
as part and parcel of this changing of the guard,cesár rey became secretary of the puerto rico department of education doe.he,in turn,appointed josé aldanondo to head up the doe adult education program aep and santos meléndez as the aep general supervisor.all of these men had ties to the pdp.
prior to the school year,the plaintiffs were employed by the aep under serial contracts.those contracts were not renewed for the school year.when that happened,the plaintiffs sued rey,aldanondo,and meléndez in the federal district court.invoking and various provisions of puerto rico civil code,they chiefly alleged political discrimination.see,branti finkel,d elrod burns,d.
from our coign of vantage,the travel of the case is more important than the details of the plaintiffs substantive claims.consequently,we do not dwell on their allegations but,rather,limn the relevant procedural history.this is the chronology 
june.the plaintiffs commenced their civil action.
august.the district court issued a order that,among other things,required discovery to be completed by january.
august.the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint designed to add the nine regional directors of the aep as additional defendants.the district court issued summonses to be served on the regional directors by september.
february.the plaintiffs who had not yet served the regional directors moved for of the summonses.
march.with the discovery deadline already in the mirror,the plaintiffs requested an additional period of between and days within which to conduct discovery.
march.the plaintiffs sent written depositions to the regional directors without subpoenaing them even though the regional directors had never been served with summonses or otherwise made parties to the case.
april.the district court refused to summonses for the regional directors see item,supra,calling the plaintiffs failure to serve them in a timely manner inexcusable and negligent.the court also denied the plaintiffs request to reopen the discovery period see item,supra.in its order,the court left the parties free to conduct consensual discovery,but warned that it will not entertain any disputes regarding discovery and that no deadlines or settings will be changed.
july.citing the dismissal of a federal discrimination claim in another case involving the aep the district court gave the defendants until september,later extended until october,to file dispositive motions.the court gave the plaintiffs until november,to file oppositions to any such motions.
october.the defendants filed a motion for summary judgment.
october.the plaintiffs requested an additional period until january,within which to oppose the summary judgment motion.
november.the district court granted the plaintiffs their requested extension to file an opposition to the summary judgment motion see item,supra.the court warned explicitly that no more extensions will be allowed.
january.notwithstanding the district court express caveat see item,supra,the plaintiffs requested a further extension,until march,for filing an opposition to the summary judgment motion.
march.the plaintiffs subpoenaed documents held by rey successor as secretary of education,rafael aragunde not a party to the action.among other things,the subpoena sought a list of all school directors and other employees of the aep during the and academic years.the plaintiffs never received the list and the defendants deny that such a list ever existed.
march.the plaintiffs filed yet another motion for an extension of time to respond to the summary judgment motion.this time,they invoked.f and professed a need for more discovery in order to oppose summary judgment.in an accompanying memorandum,their attorney claimed that he needed to depose the regional directors before composing such an opposition.
march.the defendants requested that the court deem their summary judgment motion unopposed.
april.the case was transferred to the calendar of a newly appointed district judge.
may.the district court denied as moot the plaintiffs january,request for an extension of time within which to oppose the summary judgment motion see item,supra.
august.pursuant to the filling of yet another judicial vacancy,the case was again transferred to the calendar of a district judge.
august.the district court denied the rule f motion see item,supra and granted the defendants entreaty to deem the summary motion unopposed see item,supra.
august.discerning no genuine issue as to any material fact,the district court gelpí,entered summary judgment in favor of the defendants.
this timely appeal ensued.in it,the plaintiffs assail the district court refusal to grant further extensions of the discovery deadline its decision to deem the summary judgment motion unopposed and its subsequent entry of summary judgment.
for the most part,these claims of error are so weak as not to warrant extended discussion.the district court exhibited great patience with the plaintiffs,warned them explicitly that continued noncompliance would have consequences,and took final action only when the plaintiffs had piled delay upon delay.c the more prone to help those who help themselves,williams drake,cir,and the plaintiffs,through their indolence,forfeited any plausible claim to further indulgences.
the one point that merits elaboration is the plaintiffs attempt to invoke federal rule of civil procedure f we turn to the district court ruling on that issue,mindful that a district court denial of a rule f motion is reviewed on appeal solely for abuse of discretion.see.sch.of law at andover,am.bar ass n,cir.
we begin with bedrock rule f serves a salutary purpose within the summary judgment framework.when a party confronted by a motion for summary judgment legitimately needs additional time to marshal the facts necessary to mount an opposition,the rule provides a useful safety valve.see resolution trust bridge,cir.deployed appropriately,t he rule safeguard s against judges swinging the summary judgment axe too hastily.id.
be that as it may,the prophylaxis of rule f is not available merely for the asking.a litigant who seeks to invoke the rule must act with due diligence to show that his predicament fits within its confines.to that end,the litigant must submit to the trial court an affidavit or other authoritative document showing i good cause for his inability to have discovered or marshalled the necessary facts earlier in the proceedings ii a plausible basis for believing that additional facts probably exist and can be retrieved within a reasonable time and iii an explanation of how those facts,if collected,will suffice to defeat the pending summary judgment motion.see vélez awning windows,cir.mun.wholesale,cir.
we add a further caveat rule f is not designed to give relief to those who sleep upon their rights.see bristol,cir.consequently,a party seeking to derive the benefit of rule f must demonstrate due diligence both in conducting discovery before the emergence of the summary judgment motion and in pursuing an extension of time once the motion has surfaced.see resolution trust,at.
viewed through this prism,we do not think that the district court abused its discretion in denying the plaintiffs rule f motion.in the first place,the plaintiffs proffer fell far short of the requisite showing.in the second place,the plaintiffs conduct,both before and after the emergence of the summary judgment motion,was characterized by the polar opposite of due diligence.we explain briefly.
to begin,the plaintiffs rule f mot