in,appellant anthony deciantis was tried in rhode island state court for the killing of dennis roche,convicted of murder,and sentenced to life imprisonment.in,he filed an application for postconviction relief in rhode island state court,seeking relief based on the prosecution alleged failure to turn over exculpatory evidence during his trial.the superior court for providence county denied deciantis application in,deciantis state deciantis ii,no.pm,and the supreme court affirmed this denial in.see deciantis state deciantis iii.the supreme court held that the withheld information was not material under the brady test for materiality.see brady maryland.
deciantis then filed a petition,in,for writ of habeas corpus pursuant to in the rhode island district court.the court denied the petition in thoughtful opinions.see deciantis wall deciantis v,m,wl,deciantis wall deciantis iv,d.deciantis has appealed.we affirm because the decision of the supreme court was neither contrary to nor an unreasonable application of controlling supreme court case law,and so relief is precluded by the terms of the anti terrorism and effective death penalty act aedpa.see d.
we describe the facts found by the supreme court,adding other facts from the record that are consistent with these findings.healy spencer,cir.
a.the testimony at deciantis trial 
we use the supreme court summary of the evidence presented at deciantis june murder trial.see deciantis iii,at citing state deciantis deciantis i.as the court recounted 
the state witness louis schiappa testified that on december,he observed two other men force the victim into a car driven by anthony deciantis.the witness stated that he had seen deciantis drive the car on prior occasions,and he identified the first two letters on the license plate.these two letters were identical to those on the registration of a car owned by defendant sister.
the next day dennis roche body was discovered in a dump in providence.according to deputy medical examiner arthur burns,roche had died from a gunshot wound to the trunk.roche had suffered a second gunshot wound,several stab wounds,and injuries to the face and head consistent with his having been run over by a car.
the state offered three additional witnesses,each of whom testified about separate occasions on which defendant had admitted to killing roche.louis campagnone testified that approximately two months after roche murder,he and defendant were in a restaurant when deciantis admitted to having killed roche,claiming that he did it because he believed roche to have been responsible for the disappearance of deciantis brother,rocco.
robert livingston testified that during the summer of,he and defendant had a conversation in which anthony deciantis told me that he and ricky silva had killed dennis roche he said that ricky had shot him and he had stabbed him.livingston also testified that rocco deciantis disappearance had motivated the killing.
deciantis i,at alteration in original.
the third witness who testified that deciantis admitted to roche killing was william ferle.ferle testified that in december,deciantis told him that he and silva had killed dennis roche,drove over him with a car,shot him.according to ferle,deciantis said he killed roche because roche kept annoying him and throwing it in his face that about sic his brother being killed on halloween night and that it might be his turn the next coming halloween night.ferle testified that deciantis also admitted on a few other occasions that he killed roche.deciantis iii,a d at.
ferle was extensively impeached on by defense counsel,using ferle criminal history and questioning whether his testimony was motivated by the desire for state protection or for a lesser sentence on pending charges,and hence was not truthful.ferle admitted that he had been found guilty of conspiracy and bank fraud in,and that charges were pending against him for robbery,murder,arson,and obtaining money under false pretenses.id.ferle was asked whether it was the investigation of the arson which had prompted him to testify,or whether he was testifying o ut of the goodness of his heart to help the system id.ferle answered that i gave my word that i would tell the truth of about any murders that i was aware of and that is what i did and that is all i am here is to tell the truth.id.at alteration in original internal quotation marks omitted.
defense counsel persisted 
q what would you like to happen with respect to your coming forward voluntarily and giving this testimony in these cases 
a well,what i suggested was that i wanted protection for me and my family.my wife and daughter,because a lot of the testimony i gave is against top organized crime figures which i was involved with and if they could get to me,they would kill me and that if whatever time i had to serve,if i could serve it in the custody of the state police and not in a prison because they can get to you in a prison.i know how things work.i have been around them for ten years,you know,when i was in danbury,i heard of things happening outside.word gets around.i do feel i would be safe in a prison.
see id.at.defense counsel continued 
q and is it your claim,sir,that you have been promised nothing by way of consideration by way of sentence for your testimony 
a like i said,there has been no final commitment given to me.i do really know what going to happen at this point.
q you expect 
a i am sure that i will be given protection somehow.they will have to do that unless i be dead.
q you expect more than protection for yourself and your family,do you know,ferle 
a i like for that to happen.
q you would very much like for that to happen,would you 
a i think anybody would.
q is it a fact that you are going to get it,sir 
a i ca say that truthfully,i do know that.
q you telling us,then,that you do care if you go to prison or on sic for all these crimes or not 
a i am not saying that.
q do you you do care,do you sir 
a everybody cares,but whatever has to happen is going to happen.i ca change that.i hope it does happen,but i do know what going to happen.all i am here is to tell the truth.
see id.defense counsel pursued this same line of questioning on several other occasions.
defense counsel also questioned whether ferle had received or expected to receive payment for his testimony 
q do you expect to go into the federal witness protection program with a stipend or something every month a salary 
a that really has been discussed.i am in state police custody.i have talked about any federal programs.
q who supporting you now 
a i am in the custody of the rhode island state police.
q who supports your family 
a they also in the state police custody.
q right now,you are being supported by the taxpayers of the state of rhode island 
a i do know that i am.i am in state police custody.
id.alterations in original internal quotation marks omitted.
on june,a jury convicted deciantis of murder in the first degree.id.at.
b.the prosecution disclosures to deciantis 
we describe how the brady issue arose,although the outcome of this petition does not turn on the fact of.
in and,the providence superior court,on deciantis application for postconviction relief,heard testimony from the prosecutor in deciantis murder trial,david leach,id.at,and from a lieutenant with the state police who had been involved in handling ferle as a witness,michael urso,id.at.deciantis trial counsel had died before the hearing.id.at.
disclosures concerning ferle criminal history 
prosecutor leach testified that ferle bureau of criminal identification bci record had been disclosed to deciantis in february,before his trial,but that this record omitted offenses with which deciantis had not been charged at that time.id.at.leach did not know whether he had disclosed to deciantis any other information about ferle criminal history.id.
deciantis counsel had ferle about crimes that were not listed in the bci record,such as the pending murder charge and robbery charge,id.at.
leach conceded that the prosecution,in a case concerning a different defendant,nicholas bianco,had submitted a september,supplemental answer which listed many more crimes in which fer