in this dissolution of marriage proceeding,husband robert kahn failed to respond to discovery propounded by wife jessie kahn.even after the trial court granted jessie motion to compel,he still failed to respond.finally,after jessie filed a motion for terminating sanctions,robert served responses,but they included numerous objections based on the fifth amendment.
the trial court struck robert responsive pleading as a discovery sanction and entered his default.it also denied his motion to set aside the default.after a hearing,it entered a default judgment,which,among other things,awarded jessie against robert for breach of fiduciary duty.
robert now contends 
the trial court erred by striking robert responsive pleading and entering his default.
the trial court erred by denying robert motion to set aside the default to the extent that the motion was based on his attorney affidavit of fault.
the award of was not supported by substantial evidence.
the award of exceeded the scope of the petition.
in the published portion of this opinion,we agree that the award of rendered the judgment void,because jessie petition had not indicated that she was seeking any particular amount of damages for breach of fiduciary duty.in the unpublished portion,we find no other error.hence,we will remand to the trial court with directions to determine whether to modify the judgment by striking the award of or to vacate the judgment in its entirety so that jessie can file an amended petition and seek damages for breach of fiduciary duty.
general factual and procedural background 
jessie and robert were married in.in,after years of marriage,they separated.in,jessie filed the present dissolution proceeding.robert filed a responsive pleading.
it was jessie understanding that robert owned numerous parcels of real property,either directly or through various business entities.robert claimed,however,that most of the properties had either been sold or were owned and in the possession of his girlfriend.he admitted having an interest through business entities named maverik properties maverik and the beverly building llc in a commercial building on beverly boulevard in los angeles.he claimed,however,that the building was operating at a loss and that his only income was a month from social security.
on jessie motion,the trial court appointed a receiver.however,robert failed to cooperate with the receiver and interfered with the receiver management of the building.
the trial court order granting terminating sanctions 
robert contends that the trial court erred by striking his responsive pleading and entering his default.
relevant factual and procedural background.
the motion to compel.
on april,jessie served robert with form interrogatories and a request for production of documents.
at the time,robert was in propria persona.the next day,however,april,he retained attorney thomas stefanelli.nevertheless,on may,when responses were due code civ,subd.a interrogatories,subd.a document requests see also code civ,robert wholly failed to respond.
on june,stefanelli belatedly requested an extension of time.he told jessie attorney,i will be meeting with my client on june.i will be able to get you his responses to your discovery within a few days thereafter.however,he did not do so.
on july,jessie filed a motion to compel.
on july,attorney stefanelli substituted out in favor of robert,in propria persona 
robert did not file any opposition to the motion to compel.on august,the trial court granted the motion.it ordered robert to respond within days.it did not specifically state that the responses were to be without objection.however,robert had already waived any objections by failing to serve a timely response.code civ,subd.a interrogatories,subd.a document requests.
robert did not respond by the date set by the trial court.
the motion for terminating sanctions.
jessie motion.
on december,jessie filed a motion to strike robert responsive pleading as a discovery sanction.
on december,attorney bertrand cottle substituted in as attorney for robert.
on december,at a hearing,cottle stated,i have kahn working with my paralegal to provide discovery responses based on that representation,jessie attorney agreed to continue the hearing on the motion for terminating sanctions.
on april,however,robert substituted attorney palmer riedel in place of attorney cottle.
b.the receivership.
meanwhile,on december,the trial court had appointed a receiver.on april,the receiver filed a report stating that robert had failed to turn over business books and records,citing the fifth amendment and the right to privacy he had failed to turn over business bank accounts and he had interfered with the receiver business relationships with employees and tenants.
robert opposition.
on april,robert filed a declaration in opposition to the motion for terminating sanctions.in it,robert noted that he had been in propria persona from july through december,assertedly due to lack of funds.
he stated,on or about july,i had a mishap falling down a set of stairs injuring my back which left me incapacitated for three to four weeks.it was actually not until approximately november,that i became ambulatory.
he also stated that the internal revenue service had taken the position that he owed in back taxes.he therefore claimed,i was faced with the challenge of producing discovery responses that would threaten my constitutional rights to avoid possible self incrimination with regard to the internal revenue service.
finally,robert stated that in march,attorney cottle had prepared responses and had had robert verify them,but for some reason,cottle had not served them.when attorney riedel realized this,he served the responses immediately.however,robert did not attach a copy of the responses.
jessie reply.
on april,jessie filed a reply.she conceded that robert had served discovery responses on april,unlike robert,however,she attached a copy of the responses.
the responses were verified by robert,and there was a signature block for attorney cottle.however,neither cottle nor riedel had actually signed them.
in response to out of the form interrogatories,robert asserted his privilege against.this included interrogatories about whether he was living with anybody whether he had any health,life,auto,or disability insurance and whether he had received any gifts.
when robert did not object,his responses were evasive.for example,he refused to state his residence address for privacy and reasons of personal safety.when asked his income,he stated that he received from social security,then added cryptically,beverly see court appointed receiver.when asked about attorney fees he had incurred and paid,he stated only,per attorney fee agreement.
robert also asserted his privilege against in response to out of the document requests,including requests for life insurance policies and corporate articles,and minutes.
in response to nearly all the other requests,robert claimed that he had no responsive documents.this included the requests for documents pertaining to attorney fees,documents pertaining to the community or separate property nature of any property,and documents pertaining to litigation.
robert agreed to produce one document in response to one request.
robert further opposition.
on may,robert filed a memorandum of points and authorities in opposition to the motion for terminating sanctions.it argued that jessie motion had not been supported by a declaration or other evidence robert had valid reasons for not timely producing the discovery robert had now responded to the requests and terminating sanctions would violate due process.
f.the order granting the motion.
on july,the trial court granted the motion.it found that there ha d been a total lack of cooperation by robert as documented by jessie attorney paperwork and as documented by the receiver s paperwork.capitalization omitted.
standard civil discovery procedures see generally code civ,apply in family law proceedings.hogoboom king,cal.practice guide family law rutter group,to.under these provisions,if a party fails to obey an order compelling a response,the trial court may make those orders that are just,including an order striking the party pleadings.code civ,subd.c interrogatories,subd.c document requests see also,subd.d.
t erminating sanctions are to be used sparingly,only when the trial court concludes that lesser sanctions would not bring about the compliance of the offending party.creative,creative cotton,th.however,while the ultimate sanction of default is a drastic penalty which should be sparingly used,the unsuccessful imposition of a lesser sanction is not an absolute prerequisite to the utilization of the ultimate sanction and the test on appeal is whether the lower court abused its discretion on the particular facts before it.citation.housing authority gomez d.
it must be remembered that robert did not provide any responses until a year after the original request,which was six months after he had been ordered to do so and two weeks before the date of a hearing on terminating sanctions later continued.he simply blew off the discovery process.
robert now complains that he was in propria persona for part of this time.however,from april,the day after the discovery was served,through june,when his responses were due a period of two months he had counsel.moreover,from december,when he retained attorney cottle,through april,when he finally served a response a period of four months he again had counsel.thus,there is absolutely no excuse for his complete inaction over a total of six months.in any event,his propria persona status is irrelevant.s parties are entitled to no greater consideration than other litigants and attorneys citation.in re marriage of falcone fyke th.
robert also complains that he was injured for part of this time.again,however,he was incapacitated for less than a month and not ambulatory for only about five months.in fact,his nonambulatory period july november and his propria persona period july december more or less coincided,leaving him with ample time to respond.and,again,his injury is largely irrelevant.if,in fact,it made it difficult for him to respond,he should have sought an extension of time,a protective order,or similar relief.he should not have exercised by unilaterally postponing a response.see doe united states swimming,th.
next,robert complains that jessie requests were supposedly numerous and sweeping.robert,however,had a fiduciary duty of full disclosure regarding all community assets and liabilities,subd.e he admitted that he had no separate property.jessie used form interrogatories.her requests do not strike us as burdensome or oppressive in connection with a marriage of nearly years.a couple of months should have been plenty of time to respond.and,again,if it was not,robert should have sought an extension.
admittedly,while the motion for terminating sanctions was pending,robert did serve purported responses.he therefore argues that the motion should have been denied as moot if jessie found the responses inadequate,she should have been required to file a new motion to compel,including a new meet and confer declaration and a new separate statement.
responses that include objections,however,must be signed by an attorney.code civ,subd.c interrogatories,subd.c document requests.here,the responses were not signed by an attorney,even though they contained objections.for this reason alone,the trial court could properly disregard the responses as invalid.
but even assuming the responses were valid,the motion was not moot.it was a motion for sanctions,not a motion to compel.robert had violated a court order to act by a certain deadline.hence,the trial court was empowered to impose sanctions.the fact if it was a fact that he complied after the deadline was relevant to the choice of a particular sanction,but it did not make the motion for sanctions moot.
robert asserts that striking a responsive pleading and entering a default is a punitive sanction where responses have been provided.however,the case that he cites for this proposition,mcginty superior court th,says nothing of the kind.it simply states,generally,that t he penalty should be appropriate to the dereliction,and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.citation.id.at.it also states,again generally,that punishment is not an appropriate aim of discovery sanctions.citations.id.at.it does not state that terminating sanctions are necessarily excessive merely because some responses have been provided.
the trial court could also consider the adequacy of the belated responses.robert position,taken to its logical extreme,is that if he served any response,even to just one interrogatory,jessie had to file a new motion to compel,followed by a new motion for sanctions and then,if he answered just one more interrogatory before the second motion for sanctions was heard,jessie and the trial court had to go through the whole process again.obviously,this is absurd.
robert responses were grievously defective.first and foremost,he had no right to raise any objections.if a party fails to serve a timely response,that party waives any objection,including one based on privilege code civ,subd.a interrogatories,subd.a document requests.robert claims he was unaware of this because,back in august,when the trial court granted the motion to compel,he was in propria persona,and the trial court did not specify that the responses were to be without objections by march,however,when attorney cottle drafted the responses,and by april,when attorney riedel served them,that had long ceased to be an excuse.
in addition,at least some of robert fifth amendment objections appear invalid on their face.these include his objections to whether he was living with anyone and to whether he had any insurance.in an income and expense declaration filed around the same time,he disclosed without objection that he was living with a named female companion and that he was not paying for insurance other than health insurance.
his fifth amendment objections to producing corporate and partnership business records were invalid because an individual can not rely upon the privilege to avoid producing the records of a collective entity which are in his possession in a representative capacity,even if these records might incriminate him personally.bellis united states,d see also braswell united states,d.this rule applies even to closely held and corporations.in re grand jury subpoena issued june,cir,amato united states cir,stone cir.
robert responses failed to identify the documents that he objected to producing,as required.code civ,subd.b.and finally,out of the handful of responses that he did provide,many were evasive and incomplete 
it was reasonably inferable that robert attorneys knew the responses were defective.according to robert opposition,the responses had been prepared by attorney cottle,but not served when attorney riedel found them in the file,he served them immediately.this account,however,was not supported by any declaration.in any event,it failed to explain why cottle did not serve the responses.it also failed to explain why riedel did not sign them.this procedure rather neatly allowed both attorneys to avoid any responsibility for the content of the responses.if riedel was willing to serve them,he should have signed them if he was not willing to sign them,he should not have served them.there was ample evidence that robert and his attorneys were playing fast and loose with the court.
based on the foregoing,the trial court could reasonably conclude that the violation was willful and that no lesser sanction was going to be successful in obtaining compliance.
finally,robert argues that the trial court erred by considering his failure to cooperate with the receiver.jessie counsel argued that robert had failed to produce documents not only to jessie,but also to the receiver.he also argued that robert had interfered with the receivership by telling tenants to pay rent to him.the trial court indicated that its finding of a total lack of cooperation was based not only on jessie paperwork,but also on the receiver s paperwork.
robert,however,did not raise this contention below.thus,he forfeited it.certainly his failure to cooperate with the receiver was relevant.t he sanctioned party history as a repeat offender is not only relevant,but also significant,in deciding whether to impose terminating sanctions.citations.liberty mutual fire ins.lcl administrators,th.absent any more particular objection,the trial court could properly take into account robert recalcitrance in dealing with the receiver.
the trial court refusal to set aside the default 
robert contends that the trial court erred by denying his motion to set aside the default.
additional factual and procedural background.
on july,robert filed a motion to set aside the default.in it,he raised multiple arguments.
first,he argued that terminating sanctions were disproportionate and punitive.
next,he argued that,on the motion for terminating sanctions,jessie reply had included new arguments and evidence that had not been in her original motion,and the trial court should not have considered these.he asserted that,if it was inclined to consider those issues,the court should have continued the hearing to give robert an opportunity to brief those issues 
moreover,he argued that,at the hearing on the motion for terminating sanctions,jessie counsel had stated,falsely,that robert had not produced any documents actually,robert claimed,he had produced pages of documents.
finally,robert argued that the trial court should grant relief because attorney riedel had 
failed to sign robert discovery responses 
served responses that included fifth amendment objections 
failed to argue that jessie reply included new arguments and evidence and 
failed to request a continuance.
the motion was supported by a declaration by riedel.riedel stated that he had produced pages of documents relating to the beverly building to both jessie and the receiver he attached the documents 
riedel claimed that he did not sign the discovery responses because they were prepared by cottle.
riedel also claimed that he decided to leave the fifth amendment objections because the trial court order compelling responses had not expressly prohibited objections.
riedel conceded that he had not expressly argued that jessie reply included new arguments and evidence.he explained i did not expect the court to consider numerous new factual and legal arguments raised for the first time in the r eply and at the hearing.it was my understanding that since robert had,in fact,provided discovery responses and documents the issue of t erminating s anction s was moot.
riedel also conceded that he had not expressly requested a continuance.
after hearing argument the trial court denied the motion.jessie counsel argued that,if the trial court were to just make a further order that robert do things,we are just going to be back here again.the trial court replied,i know.he has had the chance to comply.so making another order,i agree with you.it concluded i think the failure to turn over the material was willful.i think it been a pattern of noncooperation designed to frustrate the process.based on that i do believe there is another appropriate sanction,and the motion will be denied.
code of civil procedure section,subdivision b allows the trial court to relieve a party from a default.t he provisions of section of the code of civil procedure are to be liberally construed and sound policy favors the determination of actions on their merits.citation.citation.b ecause the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits,any doubts in applying section must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.citation.maynard brandon cal th.
there are two alternative grounds for relief from default,one mandatory,one discretionary.
under the discretionary provision,the court may set aside a default taken against a party through his or her mistake,inadvertence,surprise,or excusable neglect.code civ,subd.b.
under the mandatory provision,the court shall set aside a default based on an attorney sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,inadvertence,surprise,or neglect,unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney mistake,inadvertence,surprise,or neglect.code civ,subd.b.r elief is mandatory when a complying affidavit is filed,even if the attorney neglect was inexcusable.citation.citation.carmel,tavoussi th.
this mandatory relief provision is intended to alleviate the hardship on parties who lose their day in court due solely to an inexcusable failure to act on the part of their attorneys.citation.henderson pacific gas and th,italics omitted.
t o the extent that the applicability of the mandatory relief provision does not turn on disputed facts,but rather,presents a pure question of law,it is subject to de novo review.citation.where the facts are in dispute as to whether or not the prerequisites of the mandatory relief provision of section,subdivision b,have been met,we review the record to determine whether substantial evidence supports the trial court findings.citation.carmel,tavoussi,supra,th at.
robert does not appear to contend that he was entitled to discretionary relief.in this appeal,he relies exclusively on the mandatory relief provision.
t he mandatory provision protects only the innocent client and provides no relief for the culpable client who participates in conduct which led to the default citation.if the trial court finds that the moving party misconduct was a contributing cause of the default,that party can not rely on the mandatory relief provision of section.citation.carmel,tavoussi,supra,th at accord,solv all superior court th,fourth,div.two.
for example,in lang hochman th,the defendants failed to serve a response to the plaintiffs request for production of documents,but they did produce documents.id.at.there was a dispute over whether they had produced all responsive documents.the trial court granted a motion to compel,then issued two additional orders compelling further production before eventually granting a motion for terminating sanctions.id.at.
the defendants retained new counsel,who filed a motion for relief from default.the motion was supported by a declaration by the defendants former attorney to the effect that the defendants had not intentionally failed to produce documents rather,the attorney had negligently failed to review the documents to make sure that all responsive documents were produced.lang hochman,supra,th at.the trial court denied the motion,finding that the default was caused by the shared misconduct id.at,italics omitted of the defendants as well their counsel.id.at.
the appellate court upheld the denial of relief.lang hochman,supra,th at.it held that a party can rely on the mandatory provision of section only if the party is totally innocent of any wrongdoing and the attorney was the sole cause of the default or dismissal.id.at.it noted that,in his declaration,the defendants former counsel had attempted to take the blame id.at.his declaration,however,had been contradicted by statements he had previously made to the effect that he had actually recommended producing more documents,but his clients had failed to do so.id.at.the court concluded that there was substantial evidence that shared misconduct caused the default judgment id.at.
here,the trial court found that robert failure to produce documents was willful and part of a pattern of noncooperation designed to frustrate the process.thus,it essentially found intentional misconduct by robert.he does not argue that this finding was not supported by substantial evidence.we note,however,if only out of an excess of caution,that it was.when responses to the discovery were originally due,robert was in propria persona he totally failed to respond.this was before he supposedly was injured.moreover,even after the date on which he later claimed the injury occurred,he did not seek an extension of time on this ground.rather,attorney stefanelli belatedly requested and obtained an extension of time by promising responses within a few days.however,stefanelli substituted out instead.thereafter,attorney cottle requested and obtained a continuance of the motion for terminating sanctions,promising to respond to the discovery as well as to provide financial in