kevin stout appeals the dismissal of his putative class action against freescore,llc freescore,under the credit repair organizations act,et croa.in dismissing stout claim,the district court concluded that freescore is not a credit repair organization as defined in the croa.we hold that freescore is a credit repair organization for purposes of the croa,because freescore,through the representations it made on its website and in its television advertising,offered a service,in return for the payment of money,for the implied purpose of providing advice or assistance to consumers with regard to improving the consumer credit record,credit history,or credit rating.we therefore reverse the judgment of the district court and remand for further proceedings.
freescore is an online provider of credit scores,reports and consumer credit information.its website,reads,in part 
are you in a financial hole want to keep from falling into one 
see your credit report free credit scores online today and start your climb to financial freedom.
a bruised credit report and battered credit scores can harm you more than you think.they can wind up costing you a loan,thousands more in undeserved high interest rates or even a job 
now more than ever,you need to ensure your credit report is clean.lending standards are extremely strict.poor credit scores and a damaged credit report could put your dreams of home ownership,a new car or even a new career on hold today and haunt you for years to come.
you ca afford to bury your head in the dirt when it comes to your credit any longer.
during your freescore free trial,get unlimited online access to your in triple bureau credit report and free credit scores to see what lenders see 
get your complete credit picture with a in credit report 
see your free credit report featuring all major bureaus transunion,equifax and experian merged into one credit report.
view your credit reports organized for quick comparison.
spot damaging inaccuracies on your free credit report at a glance so you can quickly address incorrect information dragging down your credit scores.
get your scores to negotiate your best mortgage,auto and loan interest rates.
bonus receive newly updated credit scores and report every days 
plus,easily manage and secure your credit with freescore triple bureau credit monitoring.
we keep an eye on your credit reports at all three bureaus so you do have to.
instant email alerts notify you when critical changes appear on your credit report so you can make corrections fast 
a second television commercial for,featuring the actor and commentator ben stein,announces 
think about it.if you are buried up to your neck in debt it can feel like creditors are trying to whack you on the head ouch 
whether you are in a financial hole or just want to get a loan,a better interest rate,or a new job,you at the mercy of your credit scores.
look,you ca fix errors on your credit report if you have seen it,that why i went to and found out my score for free.
i practically giddy with excitement.gives me unlimited access to the three major credit reports and scores.even sends me an alert when there any change to my credit report.
remember,knowing your credit score could be the difference between being down there,and being up here.get your credit score today at.
life costs more without freescore.
additionally,referencing standardized credit scores calculated using a proprietary formula administered by the fair isaac credit organization commonly referred to as fico scores states the following 
the fair isaac credit organization fico score is the industry standard for determining a consumer credit rating.lenders and others use the fico credit score standard to judge a person credit record,using a complex algorithm that involves several factors.
there are five basic factors that a fico credit score calculator takes into account when measuring your credit history.
your past payment practices.fico evaluates how you paid previous lenders,including those offering payment plans on an ongoing basis.
your outstanding debts.a fico algorithm also considers what you currently owe against maximum credit amounts on your current lines of credit,if any.
your history.another aspect of fico calculations is how long you had credit.for each credit line,the longer you had the line of credit,the more a fico algorithm can decipher about your payment history.a younger person will have less credit data and credit history to learn from,as will someone without ongoing credit accounts.
your recent activity.a fico credit score calculator also looks at what you attempted to do,to determine how your activity matches your payments history.this relationship forms part of the fico index of calculations.
credit categories.fico also evaluates what kind of credit a person has dealt with or holds,including credit,mortgages,home equity lines of credit,auto loans,utilities,or other forms of credit situations.
these criteria form the basis for a fico score,but all scores are determined on a basis.so how can you deal with or improve a fico score it a long process that starts with knowing more about all the details of your overall financial situation.many people take years to micromanage their accounts,attempting to repair a damaged credit score,and many find that the best solution is preventative credit maintenance.
learning to manage your credit starts with getting informed about your credit.that means utilizing services like credit monitoring to find out what may be changing in your credit history report those changes can have an immediate effect in your credit score.
in order to receive any service offered by freescore,a consumer must first authorize a charge or debit from an approved banking account,and agree to freescore offer details,terms and conditions,and privacy policy.there is an initial upfront fee that is required,after which the consumer is charged a monthly fee of at the beginning of each membership month.freescore may increase or decrease the membership fee for each renewal membership term,or add new fees and changes.
on april,stout subscribed to services offered by freescore and initially enrolled at for a free day trial period.in order to enroll for membership,stout was required to authorize freescore to debit his account at the monthly membership rate of.
the fine print at the bottom of the enrollment page in effect during stout transaction stated as follows 
freescore provides you with the tools you need to access and monitor your information through the program credit reporting and monitoring benefits.freescore and its benefit providers are not credit repair service providers and do not receive fees for such services,nor are they credit clinics,credit repair or credit services organizations or businesses,as defined by federal and state law.
the enrollment page also enumerated the benefits of a freescore membership,which include unlimited access to your credit scores from all bureaus,automatic credit monitoring and alerts from all bureaus,and complete financial public records information,as contained within your credit reports.the webpage also explained that a consumer should know his credit score because knowing all credit scores gives you the power to negotiate the best rates possible.
on june,stout filed his putative class action complaint against freescore,alleging violations of the croa.stout alleged that freescore utilized its website and a commercial featuring ben stein to advertise its services and represent that it can or will sell,provide,or perform a service providing advice or assistance in connection with an individual credit.moreover,stout alleged that freescore used social networking websites such as facebook and linkedin to promote its services its facebook profile featured the motto.life costs more without freescore,and on both facebook and linkedin,freescore described itself as a leading provider of credit scores,reports and consumer credit information.
furthermore,stout alleged that freescore is a credit repair organization as defined by the croa because a person need only represent that it will sell or can sell,provide,or perform a service providin