parents of high school baseball players urge school officials to fire the coach.the coach sues the parents for libel,slander and interference with prospective economic advantage.the parents bring a special motion to strike hereafter motion pursuant to code of civil procedure section 
here we hold that discussions among the parents in preparation for their complaints before school officials are privileged under civil code section,subdivision b.this in turn brings the coach complaint within the motion.
the trial court granted the motion on one cause of action and denied it for the others.both sides appeal.we affirm the grant,and reverse the denials.
michael lee is a certified teacher at newbury park high school nphs.he was hired to coach the nphs varsity baseball team beginning in.his first amended complaint named as defendants charles and kathleen fick and four other parents of players lee had coached.only the ficks are subject to this appeal.
lee first cause of action,for libel,alleged that on or about may,the ficks published a letter making false statements about him.the letter stated 
a.he is manipulative to the players,the parents and the other coaches.
b.he is verbally abusive to the kids.
c.he is emotionally abusing the kids with his outbursts of anger and favoritism to certain players.
d.there were players who quit during the season because they could deal with him.
e.the man threw a fit in the dugout and verbally attacked my son for not respecting his authority.
f.who knows what he is capable of next because of his emotional and mental instability.
g.he does not stop his destructive behaviors even when warned by parents and administrators.
the complaint also alleged the other defendants published letters containing similar statements.the complaint alleged that the letters were an attempt to have lee removed as baseball coach,and were published to the conejo valley unified school district school district,among others.
lee third cause of action,for slander,alleged the ficks said the following about lee between february and june,
a.he is a bad coach and we want to have him fired.
b.he is unethical.
c.he has severe anger and emotional and anger problems.
d.he is abusive verbally and physically to players.
lee alleged the other defendants made similar comments,and that at least eight people heard various words spoken by the defendants.
in both the cause of action for libel and the cause of action for slander,lee alleged that the defendants acted with malice and caused him to lose his job and future employment opportunities.
lee fifth cause of action is for conspiracy to interfere with prospective economic advantage,and the sixth cause of action is for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage.they are based on the same acts alleged in the first and third causes of action 
the ficks filed an motion.kathleen fick submitted a declaration in support of the motion.fick declared her son,chuckie,is a senior at nphs and a member of the school baseball team.in february of,during one of the first games of the season,lee became angry when chuckie shook off lee signs.lee verbally and physically threatened chuckie,poking a finger in his chest.fick later complained to the school athletic directors.
other incidents between lee and chuckie occurred in march and april of.fick made several oral complaints to school officials,including to principal max beamon.beamon told fick to put her complaint in writing.as a result,fick wrote a letter dated may.the letter is addressed to whom it may concern.the alleged libelous statements contained in lee first cause of action are taken from the letter.
fick declared the letter was hand delivered to the school district by kandi dunning,another defendant,who delivered all the letters of concerned parents to the school district fick stated the letter is a formal complaint to the school.she never provided the letter to any other person.
fick declared that she made the statements alleged in lee third cause of action,for slander,to school officials.she stated that she may have made some of the statements to parents of other baseball players as she discussed her concerns about lee conduct,but she has no specific recollection of having done so.she denied she made any such statements to newspaper reporters.
in spite of the letters,lee was rehired in early june of.after an incident between fick husband and lee,the ficks had another meeting with school officials,including principal beamon.at that meeting,fick told beamon that if lee is not fired she will transfer chuckie to another school.
chuck fick declared that he had no part in the preparation of the may,letter his wife sent to the school district.nevertheless,he agreed with the statements in the letter.he also declared he never voiced any of the statements alleged in the cause of action for slander to anyone other than school officials.
lee submitted an affidavit in opposition to the motion.he declared he was hired to coach baseball at nphs in june of.he began teaching health at the school in.chuckie fick began playing on the team for the season.some parents were already working to get lee fired.chuckie was rude to the coaches and had a bad attitude.nevertheless,lee denied he physically or verbally abused chuckie or any other player.when lee read the letters the parents had submitted to the school district,he could not believe what the parents were saying.after the season was over,school officials conducted a investigation.thereafter,lee was rehired as baseball coach for the season on june.the ficks met with principal beamon on june.lee was not allowed to be present.on july,beamon terminated lee as head coach.
the trial court granted the ficks motion as to the first cause of action for libel.the court determined the cause of action implicates the ficks right to petition and free speech,and is absolutely privileged under civil code section,subdivision b.
the trial court denied the ficks motion as to the third,fifth and sixth causes of action.the court determined those causes of action are based in part on conduct that occurred after the school acted on the ficks complaint and decided to retain lee as coach for the upcoming school year.the court concluded such statements did not concern a matter of public interest nor were they privileged.
discussion 
section,subdivision b provides a cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person right of petition or free speech under the united states or california constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike,unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.
section,subdivision e provides that an act in furtherance of a person right of petition or free speech includes,any written or oral statement made before a judicial proceeding,or any other official proceeding authorized by law 
a motion pursuant to section requires a analysis.first,the court must decide whether the defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged causes of action arise from a protected activity.navellier sletten cal th,d.a defendant meets this burden by showing the acts alleged in plaintiff causes of action fit into one of the categories stated in section,subdivision e.navellier,supra,at,d.if the court determines the defendant has made such a showing,it must then determine whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.ibid.
in order to establish a probability of prevailing on the claim,plaintiff must show the complaint is sufficient and is supported by facts sufficient to sustain a judgment in plaintiff favor.wilson parker,covert chidester cal th,d.the trial court does not weigh the competing evidence.ibid.instead,the court should grant the motion if,as a matter of law,the defendants evidence in support of the motion defeats the plaintiff attempt to establish evidentiary support for the claim.ibid.
our review is de novo on both prongs of the statute.mann quality old time service,th,d.
lee contends the trial court erred in 