in this erisa case the district court concluded that the plan administrator abused its discretion by denying coverage for a cochlear implant.the court then awarded attorneys fees to the claimant.for the reasons that follow,we affirm the order directing the administrator to provide coverage for the cochlear implant,but reverse the award of attorneys fees.
carolyn mckenzie suffers from a profound sensorineural hearing loss in both ears that h earing aids do not address.accordingly,mckenzie sought authorization for a cochlear implant under her employer erisa plan,which is contained in a carolina care plan,ccp insurance policy that ccp drafted and administers.
mckenzie physician,paul lambert,iii,the chair of the department of otolaryngology at the medical university of south carolina,wrote to ccp on several occasions in support of mckenzie application for authorization for the implant.lambert explained that t he only medical treatment for mckenzie condition is implantation with a cochlear prosthesis.id.
a cochlear implant is a pair of components that replace the function of a permanently inoperative cochlea.an outer component,placed behind the ear,receives sound and converts it into electric signals.it wirelessly transmits the signals to a surgically implanted inner component,which in turn stimulates the nerve endings of the cochlea.the nervous system transmits the impulses to the brain,which interprets them as sound.
ccp originally denied mckenzie request because it considered a cochlear implant specifically excluded from coverage by two exclusions in the ccp policy.the relevant exclusions provide 
what not covered 
exclusions 
comfort or convenience 
television.
guest service.
supplies,equipment,and similar incidental services and supplies for personal comfort.examples include 
air conditioners.
air purifiers and filters.
batteries and battery charges.
dehumidifiers.
humidifiers.
devices and computers to assist in communication and speech.
vision and hearing 
purchase cost of eye glasses,contact lenses,or hearing aids.
fitting charge for hearing aids,eye glasses or contact lenses.
eye exercise therapy.
radial keratotomy.
laser and other refractive eye surgery.
ccp notified mckenzie that it regarded a cochlear implant as both a form of hearing aid and a d evice assist ing in communication and speech.
lambert then wrote ccp,explaining that cochlear implants are not hearing aids,which merely amplify sound,but implantible prosthetic device s that are implant ed in the body by an operation to code sounds and then replicate it electronically.ccp eventually dropped the hearing aid rationale for denying the claim.
with respect to ccp other ground for denying exclusion for d evices and computers to assist in communication and speech lambert wrote that a cochlear implant is not recommended based on comfort or convenience.moreover,the doctor explained,unlike augmentative or alternative communication boards,cochlear implants are not device s used to assist in communication and speech.id.
unpersuaded,ccp continued to deny coverage on this ground.mckenzie then brought this suit in state court,and ccp removed it to federal court.the district court found that ccp abused its discretion in refusing to authorize mckenzie cochlear implant and ordered ccp to provide coverage.the district court also awarded attorneys fees to mckenzie.ccp appeals both orders.
ccp initially contends that,in holding ccp abused its discretion in denying mckenzie benefits,the district court did not sufficiently defer to ccp as an erisa plan administrator with discretion to interpret the plan.
when an erisa plan grants its administrator discretion,a court reviews the administrator decision for abuse of discretion,rather than de novo.smith cont l cas,cir citing firestone tire rubber bruch,d.mckenzie concedes that the plan granted ccp discretion to interpret the benefits and other terms and exclusions.brief of appellee at.consequently,we must review ccp decision for abuse of discretion.
however,when a plan administrator with discretion faces a conflict of interest such that its decision to award or deny benefits impacts its own financial interests,we modify the abuse of discretion standard.smith,at.we decrease the deference accorded to the erisa administrator to the degree necessary to neutralize any untoward influence resulting from the conflict.id.at quoting doe group hospitalization and med,cir internal quotation marks omitted.under this sliding scale,t he more incentive for the administrator to benefit itself,the less a court defers.id.quoting ellis metro.life ins,cir internal quotation marks omitted.ccp admits that it is both the plan administrator and insurer and thus faces a conflict of interest under fourth circuit law.brief of appellant at.nevertheless,ccp argues that it should receive substantial deference because the financial impact of mckenzie claim is assertedly minimal and the mere fact that a defendant is acting as administrator and insurer should not,without more,have a significant impact on the deference granted to its decision.id.at.
precedent offers ccp little support for this view.we have consistently reduced the deference afforded to administrators based on the mere fact that they also insure the plan and thus profit by denying claims.see,stup unum life ins,cir evans metro.life ins,cir doe,at.in so holding,we have recognized that the supreme court has directed that if a benefit plan gives discretion to an administrator or fiduciary who is operating under a conflict of interest,that conflict must be weighed as a factor in determining whether there is an abuse of discretion.firestone,at.internal quotation marks omitted emphasis added.moreover,recently the court has questioned the degree to which a plan provision for unfettered discretion in benefit determinations guarantees truly deferential review when the judicial eye is peeled for conflict of interest.rush prudential hmo,moran,d.
this is not to say that evidence of cost is frequent and expensive claim might well demand comparatively more scrutiny on the sliding scale than an inexpensive and infrequent claim.
but the fact is,when an entity both administers and insures a plan,its profits or losses depend in part on how the actual cost of providing coverage diverges from the projections on which it based premiums.over time,a predilection to deny coverage pays well,even for inexpensive and infrequent treatments.of course,in a market,consumers might punish a particularly biased insurer but in reality,health insurance companies benefit financially when they deny claims.this conflict demands diminished deference to the administrator decisions,whatever the amount at issue.consequently,the district court did not err in its application of a modified abuse of discretion standard.we apply the same standard in our review of the administrator decision.
under a modified abuse of discretion standard,an administrator decision will be upheld if it is reasonable.stup,at.courts consider the following nonexclusive factors in assessing the reasonableness of an administrator decision 
the language of the plan the purposes and goals of the plan the adequacy of the materials considered to make the decision and the degree to which they support it whether the fiduciary interpretation was consistent with other provisions in the plan and with earlier interpretations of the plan whether the decision making process was reasoned and principled whether the decision was consistent with the procedural and substantive requirements of erisa any external standard relevant to the exercise of discretion and the fiduciary motives and any conflict of interest it may have.
booth stores.assocs.health and welfare plan,cir.with these principles in mind,we turn to ccp denial of mckenzie claim.
ccp denied mckenzie claim on the ground that cochlear implants fell within its exclusion for d evices and computers to assist in communication and speech.the district court held that ccp abused its discretion by denying mckenzie coverage on this ground.the court reasoned that the language in the exclusion on which ccp relied was ambiguous,that other provisions in the e