bayo issiaka petitions for review of a final decision of the board of immigration appeals ordering his removal to the ivory coast and denying his applications for asylum,withholding of removal,and protection under the convention against torture.we have jurisdiction pursuant to a.for the reasons explained below,we will grant the petition and remand this matter to the board for further proceedings.
background 
bayo issiaka,a native and citizen of cote the ivory coast,claims to have traveled to the united states as a stowaway aboard a cargo ship,and to have arrived in the united states in december.he filed an asylum application on december,and was subsequently given notice of removal because he had not legally entered the united states.thereafter,issiaka conceded removability,but requested relief in the form of asylum,withholding of removal,and relief under the convention against torture the cat.
at a hearing before an immigration judge miriam mills,issiaka testified that his father had worked as a chauffeur for general robert guei,cote deposed military leader.on september,guei and issiaka father were killed by government troops during an apparent coup attempt.the next day,soldiers came to issiaka home in abidjan.the soldiers shot and killed issiaka mother,and forcibly took issiaka and his brother to a military camp.according to issiaka,at the camp,he was beaten with sticks and his brother was tied to a car and dragged to his death.
while issiaka was being detained at the camp,a family friend named colonel bakayioko,arrived at issiaka home and discovered that issiaka mother had been killed.the colonel retrieved some of the family identification papers and drove to the military camp where issiaka was being held.according to issiaka,he was able to leave the camp and flee to a friend house in the village of san pedro with the colonel help.there,a doctor treated the wounds inflicted during issiaka beating.
issiaka testified that in november,he snuck aboard a cargo ship bound for the united states.he also said that,since arriving in the united states,he has been in touch with his aforementioned friend in san pedro,as well as with other friends in abidjan,and with his uncle.the uncle sent issiaka copies of some identification documents that were in the possession of issiaka former employer.
the immigration judge rejected the asylum claim as untimely because issiaka could not establish that he filed his asylum petition within one year of his arrival in the united states.see a b.the ij also denied the application for withholding of removal and cat relief,because the ij concluded that issiaka was not credible.the ij based the adverse credibility determination on inconsistencies in issiaka testimony,his lack of specificity regarding his head wounds,his failure to mention any medical treatment for those wounds in his written asylum application,and the absence of corroboration.
issiaka appealed to the board of immigration appeals,but the board affirmed the ij ruling in a brief per curiam opinion.the board agreed that the asylum application was not timely,and that issiaka was not credible.this petition followed.
ii.standard of review 
because the board implicitly adopted the findings of the immigration judge while discussing the ij conclusions,we review the decisions of both the board and the ij.see xie ashcroft,cir.our review is subject to the familiar substantial evidence standard.accordingly,we must determine if the conclusions of the ij and board are supported by reasonable,substantial,and probative evidence on the record considered as a whole.balasubramanrim ins,cir quoting,d.adverse credibility determinations must be based on specific,cogent reasons.they must not rest on speculation,conjecture or otherwise unsupported personal opinion.dia ashcroft,cir en banc.similarly,adverse credibility findings may not rest upon minor inconsistencies that do not go to the heart of the asylum claim.gao ashcroft,cir quoting ins,cir.
iii.we lack jurisdiction to review the asylum claim.
issiaka concedes that we do not have jurisdiction to review the agency determination that his asylum petition was untimely.see a sukwanputra gonzales,cir.thus,we review only the agency denial of withholding of removal and his claim for protection under the cat.
iv.adverse credibility determination 
in its brief per curiam opinion,the board found no clear error in the ij adverse credibility determination.the board explained 
t he immigration judge found the respondent testimony regarding his head wounds lacks credibility because of his inability to reasonably describe his injury.the respondent testified that a doctor gave him pain killers for his injuries,though he failed to testify that he received stitches.in addition,the respondent failed to mention in his statement that he sought medical treatment.we find that the immigration judge credibility analysis comports with the standards applicable in the united states court of appeals for the third circuit 
app.record citations omitted.that adverse credibility determination provided the sole ground for denying issiaka petition for withholding of removal.after reviewing the record,we conclude that the reasons given to justify rejecting issiaka testimony are not supported by substantial evidence.
with regard to his head wounds,issiaka written statement in support of his application for relief states as follows 
they threw my brother and me on the pile of dead bodies.they took wood from the trees and began beating us with the sticks.i suffered cuts to my forehead,the top of my head,and my shin i was taken by a family friend to my friend house in san pedro,and cleaned up my wounds.i had been cut on the forehead,on the top of my head,and on my shin when the soldiers were beating me at the army camp i did not try to leave from san pedro at that time,as i feared that the army would find me on my way out.it took me about a month or two to get better and heal.
at the hearing before the ij,the following exchange occurred about issiaka wounds 
issiaka because i have a,i have,because i have beaten by the military on my head and they have wounded.that why i needed the medication.
judge what was wrong with your head 
issiaka that what you can see it 
judge does he have a scar on his head 
petitioner counsel yes.
issiaka yes,i have the scar you can see that.
judge i can kind of see it from here.all right 
judge describe the head wound that you said you suffered 
issiaka i did not understand the question.
judge you said you,you showed me a head scar first of all.it might be eight inches long,i not real clear from here.why do you come up here and let me look at your head.
issiaka yeah,not a problem.
judge okay,show me where the scar is.are you talking about this here oh,well,let me see.okay,now not eight inches but yeah,there are scars on his head.
judge to counsel for the government you want to look at it maybe about two inches here and there.okay,yeah.
judge to issiaka okay,i want you to tell me then,what did the original wound look like that you have scars like that what did your original wounds look like 
issiaka you mean,you,you,you like to know how i was wounded i did not understand the question.
judge right.what did it look like after they beat you in the head with a stick what did your head look like 
issiaka i was bleeding all over the body i was covered.
judge so were they open gashes in your head open wounds or what or was it just a bump.you must know what your wounds looked like,okay,and this is important.
issiaka yes,they were really open wounded.anybody could see and see that it was wounded.
judge how many open wounds did you have on your head from the stick that they beat you with 
issiaka i had three wound on my head and i have one on my foot.
judge and how deep were they do you know,about 
issiaka deep 
judge did you look in the mirror when you got to your friend house to see what your head looked like at any time or while the colonel was driving you to san pedro.
issiaka yes.oh,they were serious,very serious.
judge so tell me what the wound looked like,what these head wounds looked like 
issiaka it was very serious,very,very deep woun