deborah woodard appeals from a criminal judgment entered against her on the ground that she was deprived of counsel in violation of the sixth amendment to the united states constitution.on the eve of trial,woodard requested substitution of counsel.the court refused and told woodard that she could either continue with her present counsel or represent herself if she represented herself,her counsel would remain available to help her if she wished.later,the court told woodard she could bring in new counsel if she could do so in time for trial.woodard decided to represent herself at a suppression hearing and at trial,and the court dismissed counsel before the jury was selected.
a jury convicted woodard of one count of possession with intent to distribute cocaine base in violation of a.although we are troubled by the district court dismissal of woodard counsel,we hold that it did not rise to the level of reversible error.accordingly,we affirm the judgment.
background 
on november,a criminal complaint issued charging woodard with possessing cocaine base with intent to distribute in violation of a.woodard was represented by a private attorney,harold hakala.on december,a federal grand jury in the district court for the district of massachusetts returned a indictment charging woodard with the aforementioned offense.
over the next fourteen months,the district court held two scheduling and pretrial conferences that woodard did not personally attend.trials were scheduled for april,and for september,but both dates were continued when woodard indicated she wished to change her plea.at least three change of plea hearings were scheduled,then continued.
at the second conference styled as a final pretrial conference,on july,the district court set a trial date of september.the court set september as the deadline by which woodard should file a motion to suppress evidence.no such motion was filed.the trial did not take place on september,but instead was generally continued while a presentence investigation was conducted.
the next status conference was on january.woodard was present at the hearing.the court announced that it was setting the case for trial on january.hakala immediately made an oral motion to withdraw and communicated woodard request that the court appoint new counsel.he stated 
your honor,woodard has made it clear to me that she would like to have counsel appointed to represent her from here on out.i am private counsel.i think that it a fair representation to say that the relationship has been difficult for several months.it been strained.i tried to keep it together.i do mean to suggest that it woodard fault that it fallen apart,but i think it reached a point where it irretrievable breakdown.i think that in good conscience i could no longer continue to represent woodard.
the court sought clarification from woodard 
woodard,again what passes between you and your attorney is private to you.and so by asking you questions myself,i not trying to get into what passes between you and your attorney.but this case is scheduled for trial.we been been getting this case ready for trial.
now,i scheduled the case for trial a week from tuesday.now,it very surprising to me that now i hear for the first time that you want another lawyer.you tell me you do have to go into what passes between tell me why you do want this lawyer who worked the case up to trial to represent you.
woodard responded that our relationship is strained and we not having a good relationship.it not working out.the court asked what woodard thought another lawyer would do for her that her attorney was not doing.woodard replied that m aybe i would just feel a little bit more comfortable with another relationship.it just not working out for me.the court asked,is that it and woodard answered affirmatively.the court denied the oral motion 
this seems to me to be a transparent effort at the eleventh hour to get a continuance.it denied.
now,he your attorney,he who you have selected as your attorney,and the case is going to trial a week from tuesday on the th.now,that the motion,it denied.
hakala attempted to intercede 
respectfully,i think woodard,i just guessing,but i have a appreciate your viewpoint.i mean,it.obviously,she has said anything specific.she has lost complete confidence in me.she may be embarrassed to even say that in open court.but i not afraid to say it.she expressed it to me many times.we ca are many times that counsel finds himself in a position with a strained relationship,if you will,between his client and himself.it happened many times,it okay,and i gone forward that way.this is a case where i do think that woodard will be best served by having me as counsel at trial.she has no confidence.she has challenged everything i done,frankly.and that okay,but she done so with a view that i not doing what right.and it gone on for months.
and so perhaps i been remiss in not bringing it forward earlier to the court attention and let you know that there is a strained relationship,but i thought maybe we could proceed.it looked like it was going to be a plea.we had done some preliminary work on some other issues.they fell through.
the court responded 
well,i ask her,i ask her what the problem is and she says she would feel more comfortable.that not a ground for,at this time,changing lawyers.
now,the fact is she may disagree with you.but i assume you working with what you have in this case and i have no reason to impugn either your competence or your preparedness and,therefore,there no reason in the interests of justice to continue this trial.i do hear any.she elected you initially.we going forward on the th.
on january,hakala again reported to the district court that he felt he could represent woodard,stating that she was now refusing to speak with him.hakala submitted a letter from woodard addressed to the court 
the issue between hakala and myself is i would like to have a suppression hearing before i go to trial or plea.i have asked hakala several times about obtaining a complete discovery package that would show the police report of the couple who made the alleged statements against me.the drug analysis and the disposition of their cases.also my travel documents that would show when i was out of the country.
hakala feels that i would lose the motion based on a appeal that he lost.commonwealth singer,that is his thought based on his defeat.there are enough mitigating factors to warrant a different situation in my case.on th when we came to court i wanted to filed a motion to suppress,he wanted me to plea guilty.because we can not agree,he asked to be removed from the case,i asked for new counsel.
we only had minutes to talk down stairs because transportation was waiting.i called on monday,but there was an emergency code in the prison and i could only talk for a few minutes.i try to call on.no answer.on thur.i spoke to his secretary who informed me hakala would be in court all day,to call back at one clock sic.i called friday,she answered the phone and hung up,i called right back she hung up again.i called at two clock she answered and said that hakala left for the day and said he would see me in court tuesday.
as i beg your honor for compassion due to the abrasive disconcerting attitude of my counsel,whom has manifested his biasness toward me,even extending to deny me access to minimal verbal communications as before mentioned.the time that has been left is insufficient.nothing in the least has been resolved.the courts position justice for all extendeds to the latlitude of discretion for counsel to the accussed.justice in the broadest sense of the word,would be denied me,if an opportunity to secure competent legal advice is obtained.i have no faith in my counsel.i am therefore asking the court to assist allow me a new counsell,to pick up from this point and move forward to the conclusion of 
punctuation and paragraph format added errors in original.the letter breaks off in and is signed by woodard.woodard also handed the court a second letter,from hakala to her,which responded to her inquiry regarding a suppression motion six months earlier.the court treated woodard letter to the court as a motion to change counsel,which it denied.
after reading the letter,the district court began questioning woodard directly about evidence suppression issues.woodard questioned the affidavit in support of a search warrant used to seize evidence in her case.cautioning that it was not getting involved in plea bargaining,the district court asked the government if it might allow woodard to tender a conditional plea.the court explained the mechanics of a conditional plea and urged woodard to consult with counsel.the court then announced that if a plea agreement was not reached,the trial would proceed.it told woodard that she had three choices 
you can go ahead and have hakala represent you,and as i say i think he prepared to do it,and the trial will proceed.you can represent yourself.you have that right to represent yourself.and i will treat you with every courtesy.i ca cut you any slack,but you can certainly represent yourself.and we have hakala stay right there and advise you if you want his advice,or you can cut yourself free of him and represent yourself.but trial there will be,or some other resolution.so have that in mind.
hakala reported to the court that woodard wanted to enter a conditional plea.he asked to withdraw,but stated that he would be willing to stay in the courtroom in case any questions arise as to what my involvement was or whatever was represented to her.woodard assented to this arrangement and the court allowed hakala to withdraw,for the moment,while woodard embarked upon the plea colloquy pro se.hakala remained in the courtroom during the plea colloquy the court advised woodard that she could consult with him at any time.
in the plea colloquy,the court confirmed information about woodard background,including the fact that she had attended college.it also confirmed her understanding of the nature of the charges and the penalties she faced.the court then explained to woodard that she could conditionally plead guilty to the indictment with a mandatory minimum sentence of months in prison,plead guilty to an information charging a different offense and set of facts for a lower government recommendation,or go to trial.during this colloquy the court and woodard also discussed her right to face her accusers and its implications for a suppression hearing and trial.
woodard asked about moving to suppress the evidence found in her home as the result of an executed search warrant.she voiced concern that if she went to trial,she would not be allowed the opportunity to challenge the search warrant used.the court decided that the jury should be selected first,and then the motion to suppress heard.
the court then conducted a colloquy with the defendant concerning her decision to represent herself 
the court now,let me explain this to you.it a big mistake to represent yourself.let me tell you.you have a right to.and i let you represent yourself on the motion to suppress.but i let you represent yourself on the whole case.you have a constitutional right to represent yourself.but you do know how to do this.you do know how to pick a jury.you do know,you do know how to ask questions like a lawyer does.and while that your constitutional right it not going to help you to represent yourself.
how about having hakala handle the trial and you do the motion to suppress 
woodard judge young,i asked for a change of counsel.i asked you for a change of counsel twice.i asked you for a change of counsel.
the court and i denied it.fine.that how you want do it sic.
woodard i mean,that was one of the big issues with me was may i have a change of counsel.because i wanted to attack the suppression,a long time ago i wanted to attack the suppression.so that why,one of the disagreements hakala and i had was about the search warrant.
the court the fact that i allowing you to do this does not for a moment suggest that i think that any of the counsel hakala gave you 
woodard i understand.
the court is wrong.this whole thing may mind is completely may be a waste of time.but,the reason i taking so much time is primarily because it your liberty that involved.
the court and i want to be clear,i want to be clear that you have had a fair shake at every step.i telling you,i think this business about change of counsel is all just to delay things.
woodard no.
the court and if i give a competent counsel,we let him handle the motion to suppress.or you can handle it if he has no faith in it.but one way or another we going to go forward.
the court then moved on to scheduling issues.woodard explained that she would not be ready to litigate the motion to suppress by the next day.the court responded that y ou going to have to have it ready.
the court moved on to jury selection.woodard first asked that hakala pick the jury,but later said she would pick her own jury.the court explained the mechanics of picking a jury to defendant and the jury venire arrived.after the venire filed into the courtroom,the following exchange occurred 
clerk is hakala excused 
the court he excused.
counsel thank you,your honor.
the court thank you,sir.
woodard did not object to hakala dismissal.
after jury empanelment,the court gave the jurors preliminary instructions and dismissed them for the day.the court discussed the mechanics of the suppression hearing and its order that the government produce the witnesses defendant wanted.woodard complained to the court that i know that i wo be able to do anything and i wo have anybody to confer with about these witnesses i do have anybody to talk to about,about the witnesses.the court replied that she did not have to worry about getting the witnesses because he had directed the government to produce them.woodard asked if she could get her own lawyer.the court replied,you get a lawyer between now and tomorrow and i recognize him.
just before the hearing on woodard oral motion to suppress,the government provided the court with some discovery materials it described them as a rehash of a lot of the discovery that we provided to woodard,but i just want to make sure she has it physically.on january,the court heard woodard oral motion to suppress evidence and denied it immediately.
when the case was called for trial the following day,woodard stated that she was not ready to go forward 
woodard i not ready to go forward today,judge young.i do feel i able to represent myself and i feel i need a lawyer.
the court you asked to represent yourself.
woodard i do feel i able to.
the court i told you that it was very unwise to represent yourself.
woodard yes.i do feel i able to represent myself.
the court beg pardon 
woodard i do feel i able to represent myself.
the court well,you dismissed hakala,your counsel.and i told you the choice was to represent yourself or have hakala represent you.you dismissed him.i offered hakala to sit there at counsel table,let you do it and have him advise you.you rejected that.now we going forward.
woodard i do have a lawyer and i can not represent myself.and i did not reject him.i came again and tried to talk to him.he said he feels it was best that he did not represent me.he asked to leave and he left.
but i can not represent myself.i do know the procedure.i do know ca represent myself.i ca.
the court well,i must tell you that i think that your conduct here is designed solely to frustrate this trial going forward.you had a competent lawyer 
woodard no.
the court who represented to the court that he was prepared to go forward with your defense.
now,you simply can not rule the proceedings in this court.i have bent over backwards.i have allowed you to have the hearing that you requested.i have told you we were not going to continue the trial.i have advised you how unwise it is to represent yourself.now we are going forward.
let me explain to you how we going to proceed.
woodard judge young,may i say one other thing.i have not used this as a stall method.i asked for that hearing in june.i can show you paperwork that documents i asked for it in june.i have not tried to stall things.i have tried to work with hakala.if you read the letter i asked him,i asked for this motion to suppress in june.i have done nothing to try have tried to work with him.i done everything i can to work with him.i am not trying to stall this trial in the least.i am in a position where i do want to be in that position.why would i try to stall it i tried to get this to trial.i asked him to go to trial many times.he keeps writing me not to have a trial,not to have a trial.i asked for a trial many times with him.i have not tried to stall this.i have not.
look at the letters that have been written back to me and you see that i the one that asked for a trial.i the one that asked for a motion.
the court and now 
woodard i asked for these things.
the court why then did you dismiss hakala when i told you 
woodard i did,you asked me could i work with him.i talked to him and i asked him again.he said no,that he felt it was better that he did represent me being the fact that i had already said something to you without him,he felt it was best that he did not represent me.he asked you to leave the courtroom.i never officially dismissed hakala.
the court the record 
woodard hakala.
the court i think the record demonstrates to the contrary and i have fully advised you.
now,here how we going to proceed.if you have any questions about procedure,as i told you,you ask me.
woodard i do know the procedure.that one of the big things that 
the court i 
woodard i do know the procedure.i do even know when to object and when to ask questions.
the court then listen to me because i going to tell you.
the court went on to discuss the mechanics of the trial and the verdict slip in light of apprendi new jersey,d.the court asked defendant if she had any questions 
woodard i just received copies of reports,copies of things,that i have even been able to look at,that i do even have,i never even had before.i,i do have a complete file of my case because i was never given a complete file of my case.i prepared questions this morning that i was,that i was not allowed to bring in things that i had,the notes that i had i was not allowed to bring in.because it was not a,ah,a attorney written thing saying please allow me to bring in or anything like that.i do have even a complete file of my case.
the court well,if there something that you want to introduce in evidence you let me know what it is.
woodard i do have a complete file of my case.i have have they handed me things as i was coming in.
the court i have to know specifically what we talking about.just saying i do have a complete file 
woodard in my file i have a copy of my arrest record.i do have a copy of everything.he handed me some paperwork.
the court what is it that you want 
woodard i do know what i supposed to have.i know the papers he handed me have been submitted to me to look at.
the court well,you look those papers over.i imagine that he going to want to put those in evidence,or some of them in evidence.before i let the jury see any of them,i will ask you.i always do that.
woodard i have paperwork that he handed me yesterday that i still am looking over because he just handed it to me yesterday.i have had a chance to even go over the records of this file,this case.
the court,i have to tell you that i think i explained everything to you completely fairly.
woodard you have explained it but i have had a chance to read it.
the court and i have to tell you further 
woodard i have had a chance to go over anything.
the court listen to me.i tell you further,despite what you say,i think you stalling here.you wanted a trial.you wanted to conduct it.
woodard no,i did want to conduct it.
the court well,you say that now.
woodard i wanted a lawyer to conduct it.i just had a 
the court but you would not go forward with the lawyer 
woodard i tried to go forward.
the court that you had.
woodard i tried to go forward with hakala.
the court no.
woodard i talked to him a couple of times that day.i did try to go forward with him.
the court i believe the record speaks to the contrary.we going forward.let see if the jury present.
woodard i not ready to go to trial.i not ready.
the jury was sworn and trial began.the government presented evidence and rested the same morning.woodard rested after entering some documents and presenting no witnesses.the government and defendant made closing arguments and the court instructed the jury after deliberating for more than an hour,the jury returned a guilty verdict.
the court appointed counsel to represent her for sentencing and any matters.on august,the court sentenced woodard to a term of imprisonment of months,to be followed by a term of supervised release.
ii.discussion 
woodard asserts several interrelated points of error that the district court wrongly denied her motions for substitution of counsel that it allowed her to proceed pro se after inadequate colloquy that it dismissed standby counsel after promising woodard his assistance and that it refused to allow her to revoke her waiver of counsel before the trial started.
a.the sixth amendment right to counsel 
representation by counsel is a right of the highest order.united states proctor,cir.in proctor,we mapped out the complex relationship between a defendant sixth amendment right to counsel and her right to.id.at.there,we affirmed that the right to counsel is paramount where the two rights are in collision,the nature of the two rights makes it reasonable to favor the right to counsel which,if denied,leaves the average defendant helpless.id.at quoting tuitt fair,cir.
nonetheless,the sixth amendment does not provide an absolute right to counsel of a defendant choosing.united states kneeland,cir see also wheat united states,d t he essential aim of the sixth amendment is to guarantee an effective advocate for each criminal defendant rather than to ensure that a defendant will inexorably be represented by the lawyer whom he prefers.it is that it is within the district court discretion to force a defendant to choose between proceeding to trial with an unwanted attorney and representing herself.see proctor,at and cases cited.
in weighing a defendant right to choose her own counsel,we take into consideration its impact on reasonable and orderly court procedure.united states poulack,cir.specifically,a defendant has no right to representation by a particular attorney when such representation would require undue delay.united states hallock,cir see also united states allen,cir maynard meachum,cir.thus,when a defendant seeks new counsel,the court must balance her interest in retaining counsel of his choice against the public interest in the prompt,fair and ethical administration of justice.united states richardson,cir quoting united states panzardi alvarez,cir.only an unreasoning and arbitrary insistence upon expeditiousness in the face of a justifiable request for delay violates the right to the assistance of counsel.morris slappy,d internal quotation marks and citation omitted.
woodard motions for substitution of counsel 
woodard first argues that the district court erred in denying her motions for substitution of counsel.we review the denial for abuse of discretion.proctor,at we accord extraordinary deference to the district court decision where,as woodard concedes here,the allowance of the motion would necessitate a continuance.united states pierce,cir.
in allen,at,we set forth the principles governing cases in which a criminal defendant asks that appointed counsel be replaced.when a defendant voices objections to counsel,the trial court should inquire into the reasons for the dissatisfaction.id.in evaluating whether a district court denial of motion for substitution of counsel constituted an abuse of discretion,we consider the following factors 
the timeliness of the motion,the adequacy of the court inquiry into the defendant complaint,and whether the conflict between the defendant and his counsel was so great that it resulted in a total lack of communication preventing an adequate defense.
as an initial matter,we have some question about the applicability of the allen factors to this case.here,woodard was represented by private counsel.unlike a defendant with appointed counsel,she was not dependent on the court permission to replace hakala.we see no reason why,if dissatisfied with his representation,she could not hav