plaintiff and appellant construction protective services,cps appeals an order of dismissal in favor of defendant and respondent tig specialty insurance company tig,or the insurer following the sustaining without leave to amend of a demurrer interposed by tig to cps original complaint 
the essential issue presented is whether a cause of action is stated against the insurer for a failure to defend.
in the underlying action,cps sued diversified shc,the general contractor,for payment for security services it rendered at a construction site in its answer,shc pled as an offset that cps failure to perform the contract had resulted in property damage to the project.cps tendered the defense of the affirmative defense to tig,which declined the matter.
cps then brought this action against tig.we conclude the instant complaint adequately pleads a breach of tig duty to defend a suit for damages against its insured.in the underlying action,cps and shc were parties to a suit in that they were involved in actual court proceedings initiated by the filing of a complaint.black law dict.ed,national union fire ins.cal th,d.further,shc affirmative defense of an offset had the potential to negate any recovery by cps and to lead to a damage award in favor of shc,the defendant in the underlying action.the mere fact shc elected to assert its claim against cps by way of an offset pled in the answer,in accordance with section,rather than by way of a,did not absolve tig of the duty to defend its insured.
factual and procedural background 
the underlying litigation.
shc was the general contractor on an oakland high school construction project.shc hired cps to provide security services at the job site.on october,the property was damaged by fire.
on may,cps filed suit against shc,alleging it was owed for construction site guard services on the project.
shc answered,generally denying the allegations and pleading numerous affirmative defenses,including its entitlement to an offset pursuant to common law code of civil procedure section as a result of cps conduct,including,but not limited to,numerous deficiencies in performance and its failure to perform its contract relating to security services,which resulted in damage to the construction project 
the instant complaint.
on february,cps,tig insured,filed suit against tig for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.cps alleged 
tig issued cps a comprehensive general liability cgl insurance policy.under the terms of the insurance policy,tig agreed to indemnify cps,up to the amount of,for claims against cps by third parties based upon bodily injury or property damage,and to defend plaintiff in any civil action or suit seeking such damages.italics added.on may,cps filed an action against shc to recover for security services rendered at the school construction site.in answering the complaint,shc asserted the damages arising out of the school fire to offset the sum due and owing to cps for services rendered.cps tendered the defense of said affirmative defense to tig.tig refused the tender.consequently,cps was required to employ its own counsel to defend against the affirmative defense.on april,cps settled the obligation owing to it by shc for the sum of,thereby forgiving the principal sum of,together with interest in the sum of and attorney fees and costs in the sum of,for a total of.in addition,cps complaint prayed for punitive damages.
demurrer and opposition thereto.
tig demurred,arguing shc affirmative defense did not constitute a suit as defined in the policy and in case law,and therefore there was no suit triggering a defense duty on tig part.tig further contended in its points and authorities in support of the demurrer that in invoking the defense of an offset,shc merely sought to mitigate its own damages,but did not seek any damages against cps,as required for coverage.tig also asserted it had contributed to a global settlement agreement,wherein shc expressly agreed not to pursue any claims against cps arising out of the fire loss,and therefore shc claim had no potential to result in a judgment holding cps liable for damages.
cps argued the demurrer should be overruled because shc affirmative defense was a suit sufficient to trigger the insurer duty to defend.further,merely because shc had asserted its claim against tig by way of an affirmative defense rather than by way of a should not enable tig to avoid its obligation under the policy.
trial court ruling.
on may,the matter came on for hearing.the trial court sustained the demurrer without leave to amend,ruling that under california law,an insurer does not have a duty to defend against affirmative defenses raised in response to an insured complaint against another party.
cps filed a timely notice of appeal from the order of dismissal.
contentions 
cps contends an insurance carrier may have a duty to defend an affirmative defense,and an offset can constitute damages under an insurance policy.
discussion 
standard of appellate review.
a demurrer serves to test the sufficiency of a pleading by raising questions of law.buford state of california d.when a demurrer is sustained,we determine whether the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.blank kirwan cal d.the allegations are regarded as true and are liberally construed with a view to attaining substantial justice.shaeffer state of california d.king central bank cal d.
in addition,other relevant matters which are properly the subject of judicial notice,such as cps underlying complaint against shc and shc answer thereto,may be treated as having been pled.marina tenants deauville marina development d.
generally,when a demurrer is sustained without leave to amend,we decide whether there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.if it can,the trial court abused its discretion and we reverse if not,there was no abuse of discretion and we affirm.blank kirwan,supra,cal d at.
however,where,as here,a demurrer is sustained to the original complaint,denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion if the pleading does not show on its face that it is incapable of amendment.king mortimer d.california federal bank matreyek th,d.
trial court should have overruled tig demurrer because cps alleged a suit seeking damages.
the key allegations are under the terms of the insurance policy,tig agreed to indemnify cps,up to the amount of,for claims against cps by third parties based upon bodily injury or property damage,and to defend plaintiff in any civil action or suit seeking such damages.italics added.in the underlying action by cps,shc answer pled as an affirmative defense an offset for property damage arising out of the fire,implicating tig duty to provide cps with a defense thereto.
thus,under the policy as alleged,tig was required to defend cps in a suit seeking damages.nonetheless,tig asserts shc affirmative defense seeking an offset was merely a claim,and not a suit that could render cps legally obligated to pay damages.
as explained,cps adequately alleged a suit seeking damages so as to give rise to the duty to defend.
shc affirmative defense comes within the literal definition of suit as adopted in.
in,supra,cal th at page,d,the supreme court was called upon to determine whether environmental agency activity prior to the filing of a complaint,such as an order notifying the insured that it is a responsible party for pollution and requiring remediation,is a suit triggering the insurer duty to defend under a cgl policy.
held the word suit in the policies meant a civil action commenced by the filing of a complaint anything short of this was a claim,supra,cal th at,d.because the environmental agency order was initiated prior to the filing of a complaint and did not initiate a suit within the meaning of the policies,it did not give rise to a duty to defend.id.at,d.
in arriving at a definition of suit,considered both a literal meaning approach and functional and hybrid approaches,supra,cal th at,d.the court settled on the most restrictive definition,the literal meaning approach,so as to create a rule.id.at,d.in so doing,the court stat